corruption Three former East Cleveland police officers were charged in federal court for their roles in a conspiracy in which they kept thousands of dollars from alleged drug dealers, much of which was seized through illegal searches and fabricated reports, said Steven M. Dettelbach, U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio, and Stephen D. Anthony, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI’s Cleveland Office. Torris Moore was arrested this morning following the unsealing of a five count federal indictment, which charged Moore with one count each of conspiracy against rights, Hobbs Act conspiracy and false statements to law enforcement and two counts of theft concerning programs receiving federal funds. At the same time, a criminal information was filed in U.S. District Court. Antonio Malone and Eric Jones were both charged with one count of conspiracy against rights and one count of Hobbs Act conspiracy. “The three officers charged today—unlike the overwhelming majority of police officers—did not protect and serve, but rather pillaged and plundered,” Dettelbach said. “They viewed the drug trade as an opportunity to enrich themselves, and lied to the court, their fellow officers and the citizens of East Cleveland to pull off their criminal conspiracy.” “These three officers acted like cunning criminals rather than honorable public servants that are sworn to protect and serve,” Anthony said. “They will be held accountable for their reprehensible conduct.” Moore, 42, of South Euclid, was a sergeant at the East Cleveland Police Department, where he supervised the Street Crimes Unit. Malone, 33, of Cleveland, and Jones, 38, of Cleveland Heights, were detectives assigned to the Street Crimes Unit. The unit, including Moore, Malone and Jones, were familiar with several drug traffickers, according to the indictment. The defendants, between 2012 through June 2014, conspired to unlawfully enter premises and exceed the scope of lawful entry, thereafter conducting unlawful searches and seizures, used their power to seize money and property for themselves under the guise of legitimate search warrants, and created and approved false reports, affidavits and other documents to conceal their illegal searches and seizures, according to the indictment. These illegal searches took place in East Cleveland but also outside city limits, in various locations throughout Greater Cleveland, according to the indictment. The conspirators placed false and inaccurate information in police reports, which Moore reviewed, knew was incorrect, but she failed to correct the inaccuracies. This false information was used to obtain search warrants, according to the indictment. The conspirators seized money and property during these searches, and diverted some of the seized money and property for their own use. Malone provided false information to the Cuyahoga County Prosecutor’s Office about certain investigative techniques in order to conceal their illegal conduct, including attributing information to a confidential informant that did not exist, according to the indictment. For example, on Sept. 10, 2012, Jones presented an affidavit to an East Cleveland Municipal Judge, which the conspirators knew contained false and misleading statements. The judge, unaware of false information, issued a search warrant for a home on Sheldon Avenue. Moore, Malone, Jones and another officer then executed the search warrant and seized $20,000. On Sept. 11, Moore, Malone and Jones met at a park in East Cleveland and divided a portion of the $20,000, which each officer receiving between $2,000 and $3,000. Jones then authored a report reflecting that they had seized a total of $11,173, according to the indictment. On June 20, 2013, SCU officers, including Moore, searched a home on East 85th Street. Malone, without a search warrant, forced his way into a room that was secured by a padlock and seized approximately $100,000 in cash. Moore, Malone and Jones removed a portion of the cash before causing the remainder to be secured in the East Cleveland Police Department’s evidence room. Later that day, the three officers met at an East Cleveland park and divided the money, with each receiving about $10,000. Malone later wrote the search resulted in the recovery of $74,670, according to the indictment. On June 19, 2014, Malone encountered a parked car driven by a known drug trafficker, identified in the indictment only as M.M. Malone arrested M.M., who told the officer he had approximately $11,000 or $12,000 in the car’s glove box. Malone agreed to release M.M. but insisted on towing the car. Malone said: “I looked out for you. You gotta look out for me,” before instructing M.M. to get the cash from the glove box but to leave behind $3,000. Malone removed $3,000 from M.M.’s car but did not list the money when he completed the vehicle’s inventory form, according to the indictment. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Antoinette T. Bacon and Edward F. Feran following an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation—Cleveland Division, with assistance from the East Cleveland Police Department and Cuyahoga County Prosecutor’s Office. If convicted, the defendants’ sentences will be determined by the court after a review of the federal sentencing guidelines and factors unique to the case, including the defendant’s prior criminal record (if any), the defendant’s role in the offense and the characteristics of the violation. An indictment is only a charge and is not evidence of guilt. A defendant is entitled to a fair trial in which it will be the government’s burden to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption JACKSON, MS—Andra Smith, 44, of Canton, has been charged by Criminal Information with bribery, announced U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis and FBI Special Agent in Charge Donald Alway. Smith is a former Probation and Parole Officer with the Mississippi Department of Corrections working out of Madison County. Smith is charged with soliciting bribes from a parolee he was supervising from March, 2015 through June, 2015. Smith took the money in exchange for allowing the parolee to leave Mississippi to find employment. “Whenever public officials break the law, particularly those persons sworn to serve and protect the public, we must do everything we can to hold them accountable,” said U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis. “This office will aggressively pursue allegations of corruption and vigorously prosecute such cases.” “These cases are particularly troubling because each one we investigate erodes the very public trust we are all sworn to uphold”, said Donald Alway, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI in Mississippi. “Using the authority of the badge for personal gain betrays the vast majority of us who protect and serve with honor.” Mississippi Department of Corrections Commissioner Marshall Fisher stated: “We referred this case to the FBI, based on allegations. We have zero tolerance for corruption in any form by anyone within the Mississippi Department of Corrections. Such conduct is a disservice to the hardworking employees of the agency and the taxpayers of the state of Mississippi. This should serve as a clear message to everyone that MDOC is committed to performing our mission, and we value the services and support of our honest employees.” Smith is scheduled to make his initial appearance before United States Magistrate Judge F. Keith Ball on October 16th at 1:00 p.m. He will then appear for a hearing before Senior United States District Judge Tom S. Lee at 1:30 p.m. on the same day. The maximum penalty for bribery is 10 years in federal prison and a $250,000 fine. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Criminal Investigation Division of the Mississippi Department of Corrections. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Scott Gilbert and Mary Helen Wall.
corruption NEWARK, NJ—The former Director of the Division of Facilities Management for Union County, New Jersey, was sentenced today to 70 months in prison for his role in defrauding the county of more than $120,000 in connection with the purchasing of supplies, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Aniello Palmieri, 59, of Toms River, New Jersey, previously pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge William H. Walls to an information charging him with one count of honest services mail fraud. Judge Walls imposed the sentence today in Newark federal court. According to documents in this case and statements made in court: From January 2006 to September 2010, Palmieri was the Director of the Division of Facilities Management for Union County, overseeing the purchasing of building materials, tools, hardware, janitorial supplies and other supplies used by the various Bureaus of the Division of Facilities Management. During the same time period, his codefendant, Frank Donald Vicendese, III, 50, of Berkeley Heights, New Jersey, owned and operated Viva Group LLC, a commercial maintenance and construction business that sold, among other products, hardware, tools and accessories to counties in New Jersey. Vicendese generated fictitious invoices to Union County through Palmieri for many hardware items. Palmieri then provided county payment vouchers to Vicendese, who signed and returned the vouchers to Palmieri. Palmieri approved the vouchers for payment by falsely verifying that the products were received by Union County, when in fact, the products were not received. Vicendese then compensated Palmieri with cash, gift cards and valuable items, including a Bowflex physical fitness machine, Panasonic Hard Drive Camcorder, and a Canon PowerShot Digital Camera, in exchange for Palmieri’s official action and assistance in the scheme. Viva Group received between $120,000 and $200,000 in fraudulent proceeds from the fictitious invoices. In addition to the prison term, Judge Walls sentenced Palmieri to three years of supervised release. Vicendese, who pleaded guilty in October 2013, is scheduled to be sentenced on Oct. 21, 2015. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Richard M. Frankel; and the N.J. State Police, under the direction of Col. Rick Fuentes, superintendent, with the investigation leading to today’s sentencing. He also thanked the N.J. Attorney General’s Office under the direction of Acting Attorney General John J. Hoffman, and Eli Honig, Director of the New Jersey Division of Criminal Justice, for their work in this investigation. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Mark McCarren of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division in Newark.
corruption CEDAR RAPIDS, IA—Two former Anamosa State Penitentiary correctional officers have been charged with federal offenses, while two others will be charged in state court. The criminal activity surrounding these charges involved accepting money to smuggle cell phones into the prison for prisoner use, being unlawful drug users in possession of firearms, and possessing controlled substances. Anamosa penitentiary officials learned of this illegal activity and immediately began an investigation, enlisting the assistance of the Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation. The Federal Bureau of Investigation also joined in the investigation. Two former correctional officers have been charged with federal crimes. Garrett Barton, age 29, from Anamosa, Iowa, has been charged by Criminal Information to one count of Hobbs Act extortion, that is taking money to smuggle cell phones into the prison for prisoner use, and to one count of being an unlawful drug user in possession of firearms. Ethan Darrow, age 29, also from Anamosa, Iowa, was also charged by Criminal Information with one count of being an unlawful drug user in possession of firearms. In agreements with the United States, two other former correctional officers, Marques Maryland, age 38, from Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and Seth Vogel, age 28, from Marion, Iowa, have agreed to plead to state charges of possessing controlled substances. These pleas will be made in Jones County, Iowa. United States Attorney for the Northern District of Iowa Kevin W. Techau stated, “Prison safety depends on prison personnel acting with honesty and integrity… smuggling drugs and other contraband to inmates undermine that safety and make an inherently dangerous environment more dangerous.” In connection with this investigation, Samuel Foster, age 29, from North Liberty, Iowa, was charged by Criminal Complaint with being an unlawful drug user in possession of a firearm. He was not employed by the Anamosa State Penitentiary. The public documents allege that in 2014, while employed as a correctional officer at the Anamosa State Penitentiary, Garrett Barton used his position to smuggle cell phones into the Penitentiary for inmates in exchange for cash payments. Cell phones are considered contraband which inmates are prohibited from possessing. In the course of investigating this activity, authorities also learned that Barton possessed firearms while being an unlawful user of marijuana and prescription controlled substances not prescribed to him. He also traded controlled substances for other controlled substances with other correctional officers. The investigation further revealed former correctional officer Ethan Darrow used controlled substances, including marijuana, cocaine, and prescription controlled substances, and used and traded drugs with Barton and other correctional officers, including Seth Vogel. Barton also conspired with his source of drugs, Samuel Foster, to sell marijuana to correctional officer Marques Maryland. Barton, Darrow, Vogel and Maryland were unlawful drug users in possession of firearms when they served guard tower duty at the prison while possessing AR-15 assault rifles. Samuel Foster was charged by criminal Complaint filed in federal court on October 1, 2015. The Complaint alleges that in April 2015, North Liberty Police Officers executed search warrants at his residence and storage garage located in that city. Officers recovered, among other things, approximately 530 grams of marijuana, 156 hydromorphone pills (a Schedule II controlled substance), drug use paraphernalia, and a stolen .32 caliber revolver. Another search of Foster’s storage garage in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, uncovered approximately 123 grams of marijuana and a stolen .22 caliber rifle. The Complaint alleges that Foster admitted to being an unlawful user of marijuana and to selling it for between $3,200 and $3,300 per pound. The Complaint summarizes text messages between Foster and others, including Barton, regarding selling marijuana to Barton and Maryland. As for Garrett Barton, a Criminal Information was filed on this date. He is scheduled to make his initial appearance and enter a guilty plea to both counts on October 13, 2015. Barton faces a possible maximum sentence of 30 years’ imprisonment, a $500,000 fine, $200 in special assessments, and eight years of supervised release following any imprisonment. Ethan Darrow entered his guilty plea in federal court on October 5, 2015. Sentencing before United States District Court Chief Judge Linda R. Reade will be set after a presentence report is prepared. Darrow remains free on conditions set by the court pending sentencing. Darrow faces a possible maximum sentence of 10 years’ imprisonment, a $250,000 fine, $100 in special assessments, and three years of supervised release following any imprisonment. Marques Maryland and Seth Vogel are required by the terms of their federal agreements to enter guilty pleas to possession of controlled substances in the Iowa District Court for Jones County. Maryland and Vogel each face a possible maximum state sentence of six-months’ imprisonment and a fine of up to $1,000. Samuel Foster appeared yesterday in federal court in Cedar Rapids and was ordered detained by Chief Magistrate Judge Jon S. Scoles pending presentation of the case to the federal grand jury. Foster faces a possible maximum sentence of 10 years’ imprisonment, a $250,000 fine, $100 in special assessments, and three years of supervised release following any imprisonment.­ As with any criminal case, a charge is merely an accusation and a defendant is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney C.J. Williams and Special Assistant United States Attorney Erin Eldridge, and was investigated by Anamosa State Penitentiary, the Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and North Liberty Police Department. Court file information is available at https://ecf.iand.uscourts.gov/cgi-bin/login.pl. The case file number for the federal court filings are: Garrett Barton (15-CR-00091); Ethan Darrow (15-CR-00090); and, Samuel Foster (15-mj-296).
corruption Preet Bharara, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, Diego Rodriguez, Assistant Director-In-Charge of the New York Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (“FBI”), and Thomas E. Bishop, Acting Special Agent in Charge of the New York Field Office of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation (“IRS-CI”), announced today that former United Nations (“UN”) Ambassador for Antigua and Barbuda (“Antigua”) and President of the UN General Assembly (“UNGA”) JOHN W. ASHE, Deputy UN Ambassador for the Dominican Republic FRANCIS LORENZO, NG LAP SENG, a/k/a “David NG” (“NG”), JEFF C. YIN, a/k/a “Yin Chuan,” SHIWEI YAN, a/k/a “Sheri YAN,” and HEIDI HONG PIAO, a/k/a “Heidi Park,” were charged in connection with a multi-year scheme to pay more than $1.3 million in bribes to ASHE in exchange for official actions in his capacity as UNGA President and Antiguan government official in support of Chinese business interests. LORENZO, NG, YIN, YAN, and PIAO are charged with multiple bribery-related counts. ASHE is charged with tax fraud for failure to report or pay income taxes on the over $1 million he received in bribes in 2013 and 2014. YAN and PIAO are also charged with laundering bribery money from China. ASHE was arrested in Dobbs Ferry, New York, and LORENZO, YAN, and PIAO were arrested in New York, New York, this morning, and are scheduled to appear before U.S. Magistrate Judge James C. Francis IV in Manhattan federal court later today. NG and YIN were previously arrested on September 19, 2015, based on a separate complaint alleging that NG and YIN agreed to make false statements to Customs and Border Protection officers about the true purpose of approximately $4.5 million in cash that NG and YIN had brought into the U.S. from China since 2013. U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said: “If proven, today’s charges will confirm that the cancer of corruption that plagues too many local and state governments infects the United Nations as well. As alleged, for Rolexes, bespoke suits, and a private basketball court, John Ashe, the 68th President of the UN General Assembly, sold himself and the global institution he led. United in greed, the defendants allegedly formed a corrupt alliance of business and government, converting the UN into a platform for profit. We will continue to do everything we can to root out public corruption—whether we find it in a city council, in Albany, or as here, in the United Nations.” FBI Assistant Director-In-Charge Diego Rodriguez said: “The charges announced today are sending a message to those who come to the United States from other countries with corruption plans or bags full of cash—no one is above or beyond the law. Investigating public corruption remains a top priority for the FBI.” IRS-CI Acting Special Agent-in-Charge Bishop said: “IRS-Criminal Investigation is committed to ensuring that everyone pays their fair share of taxes, regardless of an individual’s position, wealth or prominence. Everyone is expected to report all of their income, even if the income comes from an illegal source, including bribes. We are always ready to partner with the United States Attorney’s and the FBI on investigations involving allegations of misuse of positions of public trust and their impact on tax compliance.” According to the allegations contained in the Complaint1 unsealed today in Manhattan federal court: Since approximately 2011, ASHE has been soliciting and accepting bribes from various businesspeople in China seeking to influence the actions of the UN and officials in ASHE’s home country of Antigua. ASHE solicited and took the bribes at the time when he served as UN Ambassador for Antigua and as the 68th President of the UN General Assembly. The bribes were facilitated by LORENZO, NG, YIN, YAN, and PIAO, among others, who arranged for the transmission and laundering of over $1 million of bribery money from sources in China. In exchange for the bribes, ASHE agreed to and did perform official actions for businesspeople who were seeking benefits from the UN and Antigua. Among other things, ASHE accepted over $500,000 of bribes facilitated by LORENZO and YIN from NG, who was seeking to build a multibillion-dollar, UN-sponsored conference center in Macau, China (the “UN Macau Conference Center”). In exchange for these payments from NG, among other actions, ASHE submitted a UN document to the U.S.cretary General, which claimed that there was a purported need to build the UN Macau Conference Center. In addition, ASHE received over $800,000 in bribes from various Chinese businessmen arranged through YAN and PIAO and, in return for these bribes, ASHE advocated for these businessmen’s interests within the UN and with senior Antiguan government officials, including the country’s then-Prime Minister (the “Prime Minister”), with whom ASHE shared a portion of the bribe payments. During the course of the scheme, defendant ASHE solicited and received bribes in various forms, including cash and payments to third parties to cover ASHE’s personal expenses, such as a family vacation and construction of a private basketball court at his house in Dobbs Ferry, New York. ASHE also transferred the bribery money to his personal bank accounts, primarily through checks he wrote to himself for a purported “salary” (although he already collected a salary from the Government of Antigua). ASHE then used the bribe money for his personal expenses, such as paying the mortgage on his house in Dobbs Ferry, making his BMW lease payments, and buying luxury items such as Rolex watches and custom suits. During the same period of time, ASHE failed to report sufficient income to the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) to account for the self-described salary and other bribes he received. In total, ASHE underreported his income to the IRS by more than $1.2 million in tax years 2013 and 2014 alone. The Scheme by LORENZO, NG, and YIN to Bribe ASHE As alleged in the Complaint, the scheme began in or about the spring of 2011, when ASHE was approached by LORENZO, the Deputy Permanent Representative to the UN for the Dominican Republic. Since in or about 2010, in addition to being the Dominican Republic’s representative to the UN, LORENZO has also been the “Honorary President” of a New York-based nongovernmental organization created by NG (“NGO-1”), which purportedly is a “21st century media platform” whose mission is to advance the implementation of the UN’s Millennium Development Goals In the spring of 2011, LORENZO invited ASHE to fly to Macau, China, to meet with NG. As alleged in the Complaint, NG was interested in bribing ASHE in order to acquire business interests in Antigua and to obtain UN support for his proposed UN Macau Conference Center. ASHE agreed to meet NG in Macau in exchange for LORENZO buying ASHE and his family a trip to New Orleans, including first-class airline tickets and a luxury hotel suite. After ASHE’s meeting with NG in Macau, ASHE told LORENZO that he had arranged for NG to meet with the then-Prime Minister of Antigua to discuss “concrete investment opportunities, including the immediate acquisition of hotel properties.” ASHE also then began soliciting additional payments from LORENZO to pay for the installation of a private basketball court at ASHE’s house in Westchester County. In addition to agreeing to pay for ASHE’s family vacation and basketball court, LORENZO began paying ASHE’s wife, as a “climate change consultant” for NGO-1, in the amount of $2,500 per month. After initially focusing on paying ASHE to obtain access to the then-Prime Minister and other Antiguan officials to further NG’s effort to invest and acquire property in Antigua, LORENZO and NG then decided to use ASHE to seek to obtain UN support for NG’s proposed UN Macau Conference Center. In February 2012, LORENZO drafted a UN document in ASHE’s name for ASHE to submit to the U.S.cretary General in support of the development of NG’s UN Macau Conference Center. After exchanging several drafts of the UN Document with LORENZO, on February 24, 2012, ASHE submitted the final document to the UN. LORENZO used the UN document in promotional materials for NG’s conference center with other officials and an investment banking firm, using the document to imply that the conference center NG was seeking to develop was likely to be supported in some fashion by the United Nations. In early 2013, YIN, who serves as NG’s principal assistant, repeatedly pressed LORENZO to make progress on NG’s request and threatened to halt the payments to LORENZO unless progress was made. Following the repeated demands by YIN (on NG’s behalf), LORENZO arranged for ASHE to issue a revised UN document that specifically promoted NG’s private company—by name—as the developer of the proposed conference center. Later, LORENZO arranged for ASHE to travel to Macau with other UN officials to meet with NG in exchange for a $200,000 payment from NG to an account that ASHE had set up in the name of the President of the General Assembly, his role at the time. Prior to agreeing to make the trip, ASHE told LORENZO, “Even though NG has made a lot of empty promises in the past, I am willing to travel to Macau to see his project, since it is important to him. But it has to [be] made absolutely clear to him that I will not go unless I see the funds—funds which are NOT for my personal use but to help run the PGA office. Period. Please let them know that I am requesting somewhere between $100K and $250K.” Although ASHE claimed the funds would not be used by him personally, as described in detail in the Complaint, ASHE transferred the vast majority of funds that were paid to ASHE to ASHE’s personal account with his wife and used them to pay for personal expenses. The Scheme by YAN and PIAO to Bribe ASHE In addition to soliciting bribes from LORENZO, YIN, and NG, ASHE also solicited and received payments from YAN and PIAO, who represented other Chinese businessmen seeking to invest in or obtain favors from Antiguan government officials. In particular, as alleged in the Complaint, YAN and PIAO arranged for over $800,000 of payments to ASHE in exchange for official favors by ASHE and other Antiguan officials for various Chinese businessmen. The initial payment arranged by YAN and PIAO was a $300,000 payment on behalf of a Chinese media executive referred to as “CC-1” in the Complaint. After receiving the payment, ASHE reported that he had traveled to Antigua “to meet with all the key decision makers to discuss [CC-1’s] plans; that I had the initial resources in hand (and which have now been fully utilized), certainly served the intended purpose of focusing minds and getting the conversation started.” Financial records reflect that ASHE sent $100,000 of CC-1’s payment to the Prime Minister of Antigua, and sent more funds to other Antiguan political interests. In August 2013, YAN and PIAO began paying ASHE approximately $20,000 per month to be the “Honorary Chairman” of a new New York-based non-governmental organization (“NGO-2”), of which YAN serves as the CEO, which purportedly was formed to promote the UN’s sustainable development goals. The next month, after ASHE formally assumed his one-year term as UNGA President, YAN and PIAO arranged for another Chinese businessman, referred to as “CC-2” in the Complaint, to send ASHE $100,000 purportedly to pay for a UN reception in honor of ASHE’s presidency. Approximately one month later, YAN and PIAO arranged for PIAO to travel with ASHE and CC-2 to meet with Antiguan officials about a $20 million deal for CC-2’s company to install a “national Internet security system” for Antigua. ASHE’s intercession on CC-2’s behalf resulted in a signed “memorandum of understanding” between CC-2’s company and the Government of Antigua to move forward with CC-2’s project. ASHE also used his position as UNGA President to promote CC-2’s company to officials with the Government of Kenya. ASHE paid a portion of these bribe payments to the Prime Minister of Antigua. In addition, YAN and PIAO arranged for ASHE to be paid $200,000 (plus travel expenses) in exchange for attending and speaking in ASHE’s official capacity at a private conference in China hosted by a Chinese real estate developer identified as CC-3 in the Complaint. In addition to attendance at the conference, CC-3 also sought to “offer [ASHE] a permanent convention venue for the UN meetings on sustainability and climate changes . . . as well as for the 193 members of the UN to convene. . . .” ASHE’s Tax Fraud As alleged in the Complaint, in 2013 and 2014, while ASHE was UNGA President, he solicited and received payments from LORENZO, NG, YIN, YAN, PIAO, and others, to business accounts he personally created in the name of the President of the General Assembly. More than $1 million of the money that ASHE solicited to allegedly support his UN Presidency ASHE then transferred to himself, primarily in the form of $25,000 monthly checks written to and by him with the memo line “salary” (notwithstanding the fact that he already received a salary from the Government of Antigua). During these years, ASHE was also paid approximately $200,000 annually in “consulting” income from LORENZO, NG, PIAO, and YAN. For tax years 2013 and 2014, ASHE filed tax returns that materially failed to account for the income he was deriving from his purported salary payments and his “consulting” contracts. Specifically, for year 2013, ASHE and his wife underreported their income by approximately $462,350 and, for year 2014, they underreported his income by approximately $796,329.28. * * * ASHE, 61, of Dobbs Ferry, New York, is charged with two counts of subscribing to false and fraudulent U.S. individual income tax returns. Each of these counts carries a maximum penalty of three years in prison. LORENZO, 48, of the Bronx, New York, NG, 67, YIN, 29, YAN, 57, and PIAO, 52, are each charged with bribery conspiracy and bribery. The conspiracy charge carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison and the bribery charge carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison. YAN and PIAO are also charged with conspiracy to commit money laundering. This charge carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison. The maximum potential sentences in this case are prescribed by Congress and are provided here for informational purposes only, as any sentencing of the defendants will be determined by a judge. LORENZO, YIN, YAN, and PIAO are naturalized U.S. citizens. ASHE is a citizen of Antigua and legal permanent resident of the United States. NG is a citizen of China, Portugal, and the Dominican Republic. U.S. Attorney Bharara praised the work of the FBI and the IRS-CI, who jointly conducted this investigation, and noted that the investigation is ongoing. This case is being prosecuted by the Office’s Public Corruption Unit. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Daniel C. Richenthal, Rahul Mukhi, and Janis M. Echenberg are in charge of the prosecution. The charges contained in the Complaint are merely accusations, and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. 1 As the introductory phrase signifies, the entirety of the text of the Complaint and the description of the Complaint set forth below constitute only allegations, and every fact described should be treated as an allegation. Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption OCALA, FL—United States Attorney A. Lee Bentley, III announces the return of an indictment charging Rashan L. Gibson (28, Clermont) with making a false statement to federal investigators. If convicted, he faces a maximum penalty of five years in federal prison. According to court documents, in January 2015, federal investigators were contacted by an inmate at the Coleman Federal Correctional Institution in Sumter County who claimed that Gibson, a federal corrections officer, had smuggled cigarettes into the facility in exchange for a $500 bribe. In May 2015, investigators monitored an audio and video-recorded meeting between Gibson and the inmate. During that meeting, Gibson and the inmate discussed the previous transaction, as well as a future $5,000 payment for other contraband that Gibson would smuggle into the prison. The inmate also provided Gibson with the name of a contact who could deliver the payment to him. On August 6, 2015, investigators confronted Gibson about the smuggling operation. During the meeting, Gibson denied smuggling contraband into the prison. He also claimed that he had not met with the inmate, had not discussed a bribery payment, and had never received the name of a person who would pay him money on the inmate’s behalf. An indictment is merely a formal charge that a defendant has violated one or more federal criminal laws, and every defendant is presumed innocent unless, and until, proven guilty. This case was investigated by the Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Robert E. Bodnar, Jr.
corruption SAVANNAH, GA—Former ATF Task Force Officer Daryle McCormick pleaded guilty to fraudulently claiming that he worked approximately 800 hours of overtime resulting in more than $19,500 in additional wages. “McCormick’s lies about the overtime he worked cost the taxpayers almost $20,000,” said U.S. Attorney John Horn. “In committing this crime, McCormick violated both the law and the public’s trust.” “Today’s guilty plea demonstrates that federally deputized task force officers will be held to the same standards as other federal law enforcement officers,” said Special Agent in Charge Robert Bourbon of the U.S. Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General’s Miami Field Office. According to U.S. Attorney Horn, the charges, and other information presented in court: From approximately November 25, 1996, to May 7, 2015, Daryle McCormick served as a police officer with Savannah-Chatham Metropolitan Police Department headquartered in Savannah, Georgia. From that position, McCormick became a federally‑deputized Task Force Officer with the U.S. Department of Justice’s Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (“ATF”). McCormick served as an ATF Task Force Officer from approximately September 6, 2005, to June 17, 2014. As an ATF Task Force Officer, McCormick was eligible to receive overtime pay for working more than eight hours per day. To be paid, McCormick was required to submit an overtime pay request to the ATF, listing the dates worked, the number of hours worked, and the general subject matter of the work. When submitting requests to be paid for overtime hours purportedly worked, McCormick made the following certification: “I certify that the above time was duly earned. I understand that my misstatement concerning the aforementioned time may be cause for dismissal.” Ultimately, when approved, payments for McCormick’s fraudulently claimed overtime came from the U.S. Department of Justice. From October 2010 to September 2013, McCormick engaged in a scheme to unlawfully commit overtime fraud by repeatedly submitting overtime payment requests to the ATF for hours that he never worked. For example, (1) McCormick claimed to work overtime on days when he had worked a full day with the ATF and had also worked up to an additional four hours at a second job for a local church; (2) McCormick claimed to have worked overtime conducting surveillance or undercover operations, even though no ATF operations occurred on those dates; and (3) McCormick claimed to have worked overtime conducting surveillance or undercover operations; however, McCormick never drafted reports summarizing the alleged ATF operations. From approximately October 18, 2010, to September 28, 2013, McCormick falsely claimed to have worked almost 800 hours in overtime when in fact, he had not worked those overtime hours. Based on those false overtime requests, the Department of Justice paid McCormick more than $19,500 for overtime hours that McCormick never worked. On August 31, 2015, Daryle McCormick, 47, of Pooler, Georgia, was charged via criminal information with theft of government money. He pleaded guilty to that charge. McCormick was terminated from the Savannah-Chatham Metropolitan Police Department in May, 2015. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the U.S. Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General. Special Assistant U.S Attorney Jeffrey W. Davis is prosecuting the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.PressEmails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia is http://www.justice.gov/usao-ndga.
corruption GREENBELT, MD—A federal jury has convicted Carla Carter, former deputy director of the Prince George’s County Housing Authority, and her husband, Raymond Carter, both age 54, of Mitchellville, Maryland, on charges related to a scheme to fraudulently receive approximately $112,000 in rental subsidy payments from the Housing Authority. The conviction was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Cary A. Rubenstein of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Office of Inspector General; and Special Agent in Charge Kevin Perkins of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. According to the evidence presented at the eight-day trial, Carla Carter was deputy director of the Prince George’s County Housing Authority (Housing Authority) from July 2007 through February 2012. From June through October 2008, she also served as the acting director of the Prince George’s County Department of Housing and Community Development (DHCD), the parent agency of the Housing Authority. Carla and Raymond Carter owned properties in Prince George’s County that were registered in HUD’s Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher Program (HCV Program). The HCV Program is a federal program assisting low-income families, the elderly and the disabled to afford decent, safe and sanitary housing in the private rental market. The program is administered by the Housing Authority. The evidence showed that from October 2007 through December 2012, the Carters conspired to defraud HUD and the Housing Authority to obtain rental subsidy payments for the properties they owned in Bowie and Capitol Heights. During most of this period, Carla Carter was an employee with the Housing Authority who formulated policy and influenced decisions with respect to Housing Authority programs. To disguise the scheme and their ownership of the properties, the Carters identified a co-conspirator as the owner and landlord of the properties, and submitted numerous false documents to the Housing Authority. In 2008 or 2009, Carla Carter asked an employee of the Housing Authority and the DHCD to change the listed owner of one of the properties in DHCD’s computer records from “Carla Carter” to “Raymond Carter,” and to change the listed landlord of that property from “Carla Carter” to the name of the co-conspirator. The Housing Authority made rental subsidy payments to the co-conspirator. According to trial testimony, all of the rental subsidies were funneled into three bank accounts controlled by the Carters. According to the trial testimony, on May 5, 2008, and April 18, 2011, Carla Carter submitted a false financial disclosure statement to the Prince George’s County Board of Ethics that failed to disclose her ownership of the properties. The Housing Authority placed Carla Carter on administrative leave and she submitted her letter of resignation on March 29, 2012, effective April 6, 2012. Carla and Raymond Carter each face a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison for conspiring to commit wire fraud, 13 counts of wire fraud, and conspiring to commit money laundering. U.S. District Judge George J. Hazel has scheduled sentencing for Carla and Raymond Carter on January 11, 2016, at 9:30 a.m. and 10:30 a.m., respectively. The Carters are released under the supervision of U.S. Pretrial Services. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the HUD-OIG and FBI for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant United States Attorneys Bryan E. Foreman and Nicolas Mitchell, who are prosecuting the case.
corruption COLUMBUS, OH—Four people were sentenced for their roles in offering and accepting kickbacks as part of a public corruption conspiracy involving a Dayton, Ohio charter school. Two defendants were public officials who ran the school and the other secured a lucrative consulting contract in exchange for bribes to school officials. Carter M. Stewart, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Ohio, Angela L. Byers, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine whose office oversees the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation (BCI), and Ohio Auditor Dave Yost announced the sentences handed down by U.S. District Judge Algenon L. Marbley. Shane K. Floyd, 44, of Strongsville, Ohio, who served as superintendent of Arise, was sentenced to 84 months in prison. Arise board chairman Christopher D. Martin, 45, Springfield, Ohio, was sentenced to 60 months in prison and Carl L. Robinson, 48, Durham, North Carolina, who operated an educational consulting business called Global Educational Consultants, was sentenced to 78 months in prison. According to court testimony, Floyd and Martin solicited and accepted bribes from Robinson in exchange for awarding a lucrative, unbid consulting contract to Global. Arise paid Global $420,919 over 15 months starting in September 2008 at a time when Arise was in a financial crisis unable to pay other vendors and teachers pay and benefits were cut. In exchange for the consulting contract, Robinson paid Floyd and Martin large amounts of cash and other benefits, like an all-expense -paid Las Vegas trip taken by Martin. All three were convicted following a jury trial in May of conspiracy and with federal programs bribery. In addition, Floyd and Martin were each convicted of one count of making false statements to the FBI. A co-defendant, Kristal N. Screven, also known as Kristal Allen, of Dayton, Ohio admitted her role as an Arise board chairman who was bribed by pleading guilty to conspiracy to commit federal programs bribery on May 8, 2015, before U.S. District Judge Marbley. She was sentenced to 27 months in prison. The four also face a $420,919 forfeiture, which represents the amount of money derived from the crimes. Arise! Academy was an Ohio Community School, commonly known as a charter school, which operated with federal funds provided through the state of Ohio. U.S. Attorney Stewart commended the investigation by Special Agents of the FBI and Ohio BCI, who are a part of the FBI’s Public Corruption Task Force, as well as Assistant United States Attorneys Doug Squires and Peter Glenn-Applegate and Special Assistant United States Attorney Kim Robinson, who prosecuted the case. Follow the FBI’s Cincinnati Field Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s Cincinnati Field Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption John T. Howard, Jr., 45, of Nashville, Tenn., pleaded guilty today to three felony charges resulting from his role in a fraudulent invoice scheme and his solicitation and receipt of a bribe, announced David Rivera, United States Attorney for the Middle District of Tennessee. Howard was formerly an Assistant Vice President of the Metropolitan Nashville Airport Authority (“MNAA”), a public entity responsible for the operation of the Nashville International Airport. Howard was charged in a criminal information on September 25, 2015, and pleaded guilty today to one count of conspiring to commit wire fraud, one count of soliciting and receiving a bribe, and one count of money laundering. “Persons who hold a position of public trust and abuse their position to enrich themselves with taxpayer money will be held strictly accountable,” said U.S. Attorney David Rivera. “The United States Attorney’s Office and our law enforcement partners will aggressively pursue public corruption at all levels.” In a hearing before U.S. District Court Judge Aleta A. Trauger, Howard admitted conspiring with certain MNAA contractors to submit fraudulent invoices to MNAA for construction and repair work that they had not performed, overseen, or verified. Howard instructed one contractor to submit fraudulent invoices to MNAA, and also agreed that this contractor would recruit other contractors to submit fraudulent invoices. Howard approved these fraudulent invoices and then accepted cash payments from the contractors. Howard acknowledged that the total amount paid by MNAA in connection with these fraudulent invoices was more than $1.1 million. Howard also admitted asking a contractor to purchase more than $49,000 in airline tickets to Las Vegas for players, coaches, and others affiliated with a youth basketball organization run by Howard. In return, Howard awarded an MNAA cleaning job to this contractor. Howard faces up to 20 years in prison on the conspiracy count and up to 10 years in prison on the counts of bribery and money laundering. Howard will also be ordered to pay restitution to MNAA, and will face forfeiture of the proceeds of his offense. Howard will be sentenced by Judge Trauger on January 28, 2016. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Internal Revenue Service- Criminal Investigation and the Office of the District Attorney General for Davidson County. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney William F. Abely.
corruption GULFPORT, MI—Former Harrison County supervisor Kim Savant, 65, of Gulfport, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Sul Ozerden today to sixty months in federal prison followed by two years of supervised release for conspiracy to commit bribery, announced U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis, IRS—Criminal Investigation Special Agent in Charge Jerome McDuffie and FBI Special Agent in Charge Donald Alway. Savant was also ordered to pay a $20,000 fine. Savant previously pled guilty to a criminal information charging him with conspiracy to commit bribery in connection with his role as a board member of the Harrison County Utility Authority. Savant admitted that, from January 2011 through January 2013, while he was a supervisor for Harrison County and a member of the board of the Harrison County Utility Authority, he conspired with the owner of a company that performed work for the utility authority and accepted bribe payments in the amount of $1,500 per month in exchange for his official actions such as voting on the awarding of contracts, payments, emergency work, and other items. U.S. Attorney Davis praised the efforts of special agents with the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation for their work on the case, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Ruth Morgan who prosecuted the case.
corruption COLUMBUS, OH—Special Agent in Charge Angela L. Byers of the Cincinnati Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) announced today that Matthew Dailey, 44, of Howard, Ohio, a detective with the Mount Vernon Ohio Police Department, was arrested by the FBI and law enforcement partners on a criminal complaint. The criminal complaint alleges Dailey used his position with the Mount Vernon Police Department to extort others, traffic in narcotics, and use a firearm while committing drug trafficking crimes. SAC Byers thanked the Drug Enforcement Administration and Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation for their ongoing work in this investigation. She also expressed appreciation to Chief Roger Monroe and the Mount Vernon Police Department for their cooperation in this matter. A criminal complaint is not a finding of guilt. An individual charged by criminal complaint is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty at later criminal proceedings. Follow the FBI’s Cincinnati Field Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s Cincinnati Field Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, announced that LYNWOOD PATRICK, JR., 40, of East Hartford, was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge Victor A. Bolden in Bridgeport to three years of probation, the first six months of which PATRICK must serve in home confinement, for submitting a fraudulent application for a personal mortgage modification. According to court documents and statements made in court, from approximately October 2012 through May 2013, while he was employed as the Director of Investigations for the State of Connecticut Department of Social Services (DSS), Office of Quality Assurance, PATRICK applied for a mortgage modification through JP Morgan Chase under the Making Home Affordable program, a federal initiative designed to assist homeowners who have experienced a decline in income access secure loans at lower rates. The application requested assistance in connection with a property PATRICK owned in East Hartford. During the application process, PATRICK represented that the East Hartford property was his primary residence and was owner occupied when, in fact, the property was not his primary residence and he did not occupy it. PATRICK also fabricated State of Connecticut paystubs and lied about his assets in order qualify for the program. Specifically, PATRICK claimed total assets of $500 in one checking account to show that he had experienced a loss of income causing a hardship when, in fact, he had thousands of dollars spread out over multiple accounts at several institutions and his rate of pay had not diminished. The investigation revealed that, in connection with the loan application, PATRICK faxed fraudulent documents to JP Morgan Chase from DSS offices and used a DSS fax coversheet. In his capacity as the Director of Investigations, PATRICK was responsible for coordinating and conducting activities to prevent, detect and investigate fraud, waste, abuse and overpayments in the Connecticut Medicaid, Care4Kids, Supplemental Nutritional Assistance and Connecticut Energy Assistance Programs. PATRICK’s salary was partially paid for by the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, which is a federal agency within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. On June 8, 2015, PATRICK pleaded guilty to one count of mail fraud. This matter was investigated by the Connecticut Public Corruption Task Force, which includes the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services – Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development – Office of Inspector General, Federal Bureau of Investigation, U.S. Postal Inspection Service and Internal Revenue Service – Criminal Investigation Division. The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher M. Mattei. Citizens are encouraged to report corruption to the Connecticut Public Corruption Task Force by calling 203-238-0505.
corruption NEW ORLEANS—U.S. Attorney Kenneth A. Polite announced that IRA THOMAS, 58, of New Orleans, a former member of the Orleans Parish School Board (“OPSB”), was sentenced today after previously pleading guilty to charges of conspiracy to commit bribery and honest services wire fraud. U.S. District Judge Susie Morgan sentenced THOMAS to one year plus 1 day incarceration, followed by one year of supervised release, a $4,000 fine and a $100 special assessment. According to court documents, THOMAS admitted that, beginning in September 2013 and continuing until January 2015, he and others participated in a conspiracy to commit bribery and honest services wire fraud. THOMAS further admitted that, in his role as an Orleans Parish School Board member, he engaged in a scheme to defraud Orleans Parish and its citizens of his honest services through bribery and a kickback scheme, whereby THOMAS used his public office and official capacity to provide favorable treatment, including attempting to facilitate the awarding of a contract, that was designed to benefit the business and financial interest of an individual who provided him with a bribe and kickback in the form of cash payment disguised as a campaign contribution. U.S. Attorney Polite praised the work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in investigating this matter and thanked the Metropolitan Crime Commission for their assistance. Assistant U.S. Attorney Sean Toomey is in charge of the prosecution.
corruption BUFFALO, NY—U.S. Attorney William J. Hochul, Jr. announced today that Patrick S. O’Mara, 54, of Buffalo, NY, who was convicted of wire fraud related to falsely claiming he had been injured on duty as a police officer, was sentenced to six months in prison and two years’ supervised release by Senior U.S. District Judge William M Skretny. The defendant was also ordered to pay restitution to the City of Buffalo totaling $103,946.28. Assistant U.S. Attorney John E. Rogowski, who handled the case, stated that in February, 2004, the defendant, a Buffalo Police Officer, was placed on Injured on Duty Status (IOD) by the City of Buffalo. O’Mara was placed on IOD status for cervical and lumbar strains suffered while on duty. The defendant remained on IOD status until October, 2004 when he was ordered to return to light duty. In 2005, O’Mara again claimed to have injured his right arm, this time while purportedly lifting two reams of copy paper. While the defendant did not report the injury to his superiors until 23 days later, the defendant was placed on IOD status once again in September, 2005, where he remained up until 2102, the time he was initially arrested and charged in this case. Following the defendant’s arrest, the defendant filed for retirement from the Police Department. During the course of the investigation, the Government learned that the defendant’s primary care physician did not recommend that O’Mara return to work. Contradicting this position, several independent medical exams concluded that the defendant was not permanently disabled. One doctor noted that the defendant walked into his office using a cane, but later witnessed O’Mara walking in the parking lot without any limp. Additional investigation determined that the defendant was working another job while simultaneously claiming he was too injured to perform even light duty for the Buffalo Police Department. The work involved serving as a paid musical director and church organist which involved the use of the same arm the defendant claimed he injured in 2005 while lifting the lifting the two reams of paper. At the time of the defendant’s arrest in May, 2012, the defendant admitted that he was capable of performing light duty for the Police Department. The defendant claimed that the reason he stayed on IOD was that he considered it to be “demeaning” to sit at a desk and answer the telephone, and further, that the pay he received while on IOD status was an incentive to remain off-duty since the pay was tax-free. In Court, the defendant attributed his fraud to being “greedy.” O’Mara’s was one of two Buffalo Police Officers charged with defrauding the IOD Program. Since the filing of both cases by the Government, the number of Buffalo Police officers on IOD status has declined from well over one hundred officers to under 20. The second defendant charged in connection with the IOD investigation, Robert Quintana, is pending trial for mail and health care fraud. The fact that a defendant has been charged with a crime is merely an accusation and the defendant is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty. The sentencing is the culmination of an investigation by Special Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Buffalo Police Department, under the direction of Commissioner Daniel Derenda.
corruption RALEIGH, NC—One current and three former U.S. Army soldiers were sentenced today in federal court in Raleigh, North Carolina for their involvement in a bribery scheme in Afghanistan that resulted in the theft of fuel valued at more than $10 million. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Thomas G. Walker for the Eastern District of North Carolina, Special Agent in Charge John F. Khin of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS) Southeast Field Office, Special Agent in Charge John A. Strong of the FBI’s Charlotte Division, Director Frank Robey of the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command’s (Army CID) Major Procurement Fraud Unit and Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR) John F. Sopko made the announcement. Each defendant previously pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit offense against the United States and one count of bribery. U.S. District Court Judge Terrence W. Boyle of the Eastern District of North Carolina imposed the following sentences: Jeffery B. Edmondson, 38, of Fayetteville, North Carolina, was the senior enlisted member of the unit who supervised all of his co-conspirators, and was sentenced to eight years in prison. Christopher Ciampa, 33, of Lillington, North Carolina, was sentenced to 10 years in prison. Enmanual Lugo, 32, of Ocean Township, New Jersey, was sentenced to four years in prison. Geoffrey Montague, 39, of Fayetteville, North Carolina, was a senior enlisted member of the unit who reported to Edmondson, and was sentenced to five years in prison. “These men were trusted to provide their fellow soldiers with the resources needed to successfully complete our mission in Afghanistan. Instead, they chose to personally profit from selling stolen fuel valued at millions of dollars. These federal sentences should reassure the public that the FBI and our law enforcement partners will not tolerate the theft of government resources intended to protect our servicemen and women overseas,” said John Strong, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI in North Carolina. “John F. Sopko, the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction stated, “The vast majority of the men and women of our armed forces possess the integrity and trust that the United States has learned to expect. There is a small percentage that betrays that trust. Sadly, these four represent that small percentage.” “Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS), with our investigative partners, continues to aggressively pursue those who deprive the Department of Defense of much needed resources, such as fuel, critical to accomplishing its global missions,” said DCIS Special Agent in Charge Khin. “Corruption and theft in a combat environment, especially on such a large scale, degrade the effectiveness of the U.S. armed forces, and increases the danger to our warfighters by diverting those resources to our enemies.” “This sentencing demonstrates our firm commitment to hold accountable those who commit fraud, receive kickbacks or otherwise steal from our government, in or out of uniform,” said Frank Robey, director of the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command’s Major Procurement Fraud Unit. “Special agents from our Major Procurement Fraud Unit, along with those from other federal law enforcement agencies, are unwavering in our commitment to seek out and hold responsible all those who conduct criminal activity against the United States Army and the American taxpayer.” In 2011, Edmondson, Montague, Ciampa and Lugo were U.S. Army soldiers serving with the 3rd Special Forces Group Service Detachment deployed to Kandahar Air Field in Afghanistan. During the deployment, the defendants were responsible for managing Transportation Movement Requests (TMRs) for fuel and other items in support of military units in Afghanistan paid for by the U.S. government. In connection with their guilty pleas, the defendants admitted to submitting fake TMRs for thousands of gallons of fuel that were neither necessary nor used by military units. The defendants admitted that, in return for cash bribe payments; they awarded all of the TMRs to the same Afghan trucking company, which used the fake TMRs to download fuel from depots on Kandahar Air Field and then sold the fuel on the black market. The defendants admitted that they sent some of the illicit proceeds to the U.S. via wire transfer or hidden in personal items, and transported cash back to the U.S. either on their persons or in their luggage. In addition, Edmondson and Ciampa admitted to using the funds to purchase automobiles. According to the plea agreements, the scheme caused losses to the U.S. of over $10 million. The case was investigated by the DCIS, FBI, Army CID and SIGAR. The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorney Wade Weems of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section, on detail from SIGAR, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Banumathi Rangarajan of the Eastern District of North Carolina.
corruption RALEIGH, NC—United States Attorney Thomas G. Walker announced that in federal court today, United States District Judge Terrence W. Boyle sentenced ROBERT WARREN GREEN, 46, of Wade, North Carolina, to 10 months of imprisonment and one year of supervised release. The Court further ordered GREEN to pay $45,000.00 in restitution and the forfeiture of criminal proceeds in the same amount. On April 27, 2015, GREEN pled guilty to demanding, seeking, and receiving gratuities. According to the Criminal Information and information in the public record, between January, 2008 and April, 2009, while deployed to Afghanistan, Sergeant First Class GREEN was assigned to a Movement Control Team (MCT) and responsible for logistics and transportation, including the administration of Transportation Movement Requests (TMRs). TMRs are the means by which a military unit in the field submits a request for logistics support and the transport of military items from one location to another across Afghanistan, including food, fuel, equipment, and other supplies. Beginning sometime in January 2008, Green sought and received $45,000 in cash from an Afghan national who was, at the time, the owner of an Afghan trucking company, and who was seeking contracts through the TMR process. In exchange for the $45,000, Green facilitated the award of TMRs to that Afghan trucking company. In fact, Green caused to be awarded at least 40 TMRs worth approximately $3 million to that company. “It is especially disappointing when a service member violates the position he is entrusted with by putting his profit above his mission. The FBI and our investigative partners will work tirelessly to bring those to justice who misuse government resources designated to benefit those who sacrifice for our country,” said John Strong, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI in North Carolina. John F. Sopko, the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction stated, “The vast majority of the men and women of our armed forces possess the integrity and trust that the United States has learned to expect. There is a small percentage that betrays that trust. Sadly, Green represents that small percentage.” “Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS) Special Agent in Charge John F. Khin, Southeast Field Office, commented, “It is disheartening when a military member abandons his code of conduct and violates a position of trust for personal enrichment. The DCIS investigates fraud and corruption that undermines the integrity of the Department of Defense. We continue to aggressively investigate violators to preserve precious American taxpayer dollars and better support our Warfighters serving honorably and selflessly in Southwest Asia.” “We will not tolerate this type of criminal behavior in our ranks—period, “ said Frank Robey, the director of the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command’s Major Procurement Fraud Unit. “We will continue to aggressively pursue those who attempt to steal, commit bribery, or receive kickbacks while employed by the U.S. Army and the U.S. Government.” The case was investigated by the Defense Criminal Investigation Service (DCIS), Army Criminal Investigation Command (CID), the Office of the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR), and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Banumathi Rangarajan of the Eastern District of North Carolina and DOJ Criminal Fraud Section Trial Attorney Wade Weems, on detail from SIGAR.
corruption BOSTON—A Boston Police detective pleaded guilty today to conspiracy to obstruct a FBI investigation related to the Academy Homes Street Gang (AHSG), a violent narcotics trafficking gang that operated out of the Academy Homes housing development in Roxbury. Brian Smigielski, 43, of Norton, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Court Judge Denise J. Casper to one count of conspiracy to defraud the United States during the course of a federal investigation. U.S. District Court Judge Denise J. Casper scheduled sentencing for Jan. 28, 2016. From early 2009 to 2011, the FBI and Boston Police Department (BPD) were conducting a joint investigation into AHSG, during the initial stages of which Smigielski was the lead investigator. In late 2009, Smigielski, became upset after being ordered to turn over the investigation to the FBI and other BPD units, and thereafter, in 2010 and 2011, conspired with a fellow BPD officer and AHSG gang members to impede the FBI in its investigation of AHSG. Smigielski assisted the AHSG gang members by, among other things, informing the gang members of the FBI’s pending investigation and warning them that their arrests were imminent. The charging statute provides for a sentence of no greater than five years in prison, three years of supervised release, and a fine of $250,000. Actual sentences for federal crimes are typically less than the maximum penalties. Sentences are imposed by a federal district court judge based upon the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and other statutory factors. United States Attorney Ortiz; Joseph R. Bonavolonta, Acting Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Boston Field Division; and Superintendent Frank Mancini of the Boston Police Department’s Anti-Corruption Division, made the announcement today. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Dustin Chao of Ortiz’s Public Corruption and Special Prosecutions Unit.
corruption WASHINGTON—Ten Puerto Rico police officers have been indicted for their alleged participation in a criminal organization, run out of the police department, that used their affiliation with law enforcement to make money through robbery, extortion, manipulating court records and selling illegal narcotics, announced U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodríguez-Vélez of the District of Puerto Rico. “The criminal action today dismantles a network of officers who, we allege, used their badges and their guns not to uphold the law, but to break it,” said U.S. Attorney Rodríguez-Vélez. “The indictment portrays a classic criminal shakedown; but the people wielding the guns and stealing the drugs here weren’t mob goodfellas or mafia soldiers – these were police officers violating their oaths to enforce the law, making a mockery of the police’s sacred responsibility to protect the public.” “Corruption is at the root of all evil,” said Special Agent in Charge Carlos Cases of the FBI’s San Juan Division. “These police officers violated the trust of the people of Puerto Rico and not only dishonored the police department, but also their fellow, honest, and hardworking officers. The FBI, along with the United States Attorney’s Office, will continue to attack corruption at all levels.” The indictment, returned on Sept. 24, 2015, by a federal grand jury in the District of Puerto Rico, includes 11 charges against the following police officers: Shylene López-García aka “Plinia;” Ángel Hernández-Nieves, aka “Doble;” Xavier Jiménez-Martínez, aka “Negro;” Alvin Montes-Cintrón, aka “Vinillo;” Ramón Muñiz-Robledo, aka “Marmota;” Guillermo Santos-Castro, aka “Caco Biftec;” Luis Flores-Ortiz, aka “Piquito;” José Neris-Serrano; Manuel Grego-López; and David Centeno-Faría, aka “David Bisbal”. The defendants are charged with conspiring to violate the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) Act. Other charges against certain defendants include extortion under color of official right, narcotics trafficking, civil rights violations and false statements to federal agents. According to the indictment, the officers charged with RICO conspiracy were members of a criminal organization who sought to enrich themselves through a pattern of illegal conduct. The officers worked together to conduct traffic stops and enter homes or buildings used by persons suspected of being engaged in criminal activity to steal money, property and narcotics. The officers planted evidence to make false arrests, extorted narcotics and firearms from individuals in exchange for their release. The members of the enterprise gave false testimony, manipulated court records and failed to appear in court when required so that cases would be dismissed. The officers also sold and distributed wholesale quantities of narcotics. For example, in January 2012, defendants Hernández-Nieves, Muñiz-Robledo and Grego-López, in their capacity as police officers, released a federal fugitive from custody in exchange for firearms. In another example, the indictment alleges that in February 2013, defendants López-García and Montes-Cintrón, in their capacity as police officers, stole at least 500 grams of cocaine during the course of a police intervention, which Jiménez-Martínez sold afterward in furtherance of the goal of the enterprise. The indictment charges that the defendants frequently shared the proceeds they illegally obtained and that they used their power, authority and official positions as police officers to promote and protect their illegal activity. Among other things, the indictment charges that they used the Police of Puerto of Rico’s (POPR) firearms, badges, patrol cars, tools, uniforms and other equipment to commit the crimes and concealed their illegal activity with fraudulently obtained court documents and falsified POPR paperwork to make it appear that they were engaged in legitimate police work. The case is being investigated by the FBI’s San Juan Division. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Mariana Bauzá-Almonte and Teresa Zapata-Valladares of the District of Puerto Rico. The charges contained in the indictment are merely accusations. The defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. Citizens of Puerto Rico with allegations of law enforcement corruption are encouraged to contact the FBI’s San Juan Division at (787) 754-6000.
corruption BOSTON—A Massachusetts Department of Probation officer was charged today with making a false statement to the FBI in connection with a public corruption investigation. Lawrence Plumer, 46, of Brockton, was charged in an Information with one count of making a false statement to the FBI. Plumer has been a Massachusetts probation officer since 2000. The charging statute provides a sentence of no greater than five years in prison, three years of supervised release, and a fine of $250,000. The plea agreement also filed today states that Plumer has agreed to resign his position as a probation officer. Actual sentences for federal crimes are typically less than the maximum penalties. Sentences are imposed by a federal district court judge based upon the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and other statutory factors. United States Attorney Carmen M. Ortiz; Joseph R. Bonavolonta, Acting Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Boston Field Division, made the announcement today. The U.S. Attorney’s Office also acknowledges the cooperation of the Massachusetts Attorney General’s Office. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert A. Fisher of Ortiz’s Public Corruption Unit and Special Prosecutions Unit. The details contained in the Information are allegations. The defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
corruption BALTIMORE, MD—U.S. District Judge J. Frederick Motz sentenced former correctional officer Travis Paylor, age 27, of Baltimore, today to 76 months in prison, followed by three years of supervised release, for participating in a racketeering conspiracy and drug conspiracy, involving the smuggling of drugs and contraband inside the Baltimore City Detention Center (BCDC). Paylor was convicted on February 5, 2015, after a more than two month long jury trial. The sentence was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Kevin Perkins of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Secretary Stephen T. Moyer of the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services (DPSCS); Interim Baltimore Police Commissioner Kevin Davis; and Baltimore City State’s Attorney Marilyn Mosby. “Travis Paylor received the longest sentence of any correctional officer in the case, which is appropriate because he continued to engage in illegal activity even after he was convicted in this case,” said U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein. “We commend our task force partners for yet another successful prosecution in the wide-ranging corruption cases that plagued the now closed Baltimore City Detention Center. This sentence once again emphasizes we will not tolerate corruption within our correctional system and those found to be engaged in such criminal activity will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law,” said Secretary Stephen T. Moyer. According to trial testimony and court documents, BGF has been the dominant gang at the Baltimore City Detention Center (BCDC), and in several connected facilities, including the Baltimore Central Booking Intake Center, the Women’s Detention Center, which houses many men, and in the Jail Industries Building. Tavon White and other BGF leaders and members incarcerated at BCDC were involved with and often directed the smuggling of contraband into BCDC, including cell phones, tobacco and drugs, through the services of correctional officers (COs), who received payments, gifts, or a share of the profits. According to evidence presented at trial, Paylor was a correctional officer (CO) at the BCDC who smuggled contraband into the jail for distribution by BGF inmates. In return, Paylor and other COs received payments, gifts or a share of the profits. According to trial evidence and other court documents, Paylor was an important source of supply of Percocet pills for BGF leader Tavon White, who bought Percocet pills from Paylor once or twice a week. Paylor worked with other correctional officers to sell contraband to White, as well as to other inmates. Paylor charged various rates, depending on the amount of items purchased. For example, Paylor charged $300 just to bring in 50 Percocet pills provided by the inmate’s outside source of supply. From 2009 through 2010, when Paylor was moved to the Baltimore Central Booking and Intake Center (BCBIC), Tavon White paid Paylor approximately $10,000 for drugs. Paylor continued selling contraband to inmates after he was moved to BCBIC. This case was developed as a result of the efforts of the Maryland Prison Task Force, formed in 2011 with the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services, local, state and federal law enforcement agencies, and prosecutors. The Task Force has met regularly for over three years, generating recommendations to reform prison procedures and producing leads that have been pursued by state, local and federal criminal investigators. Investigations are continuing. Forty of the 44 defendants charged in the racketeering conspiracy have been convicted, including 24 correctional officers. Thirty-five defendants pleaded guilty and five defendants were convicted after trial. Three defendants were acquitted and one defendant died. To date, 23 of the correctional officers, including Paylor, have been sentenced to up to 76 months in prison. BGF leader Tavon White, age 37, pleaded guilty to his participation in the racketeering conspiracy and testified at the trial and was sentenced to 12 years in prison. Inmates and leaders in the BGF gang, Russell Carrington, a/k/ Rutt, age 34, and Joseph Young, a/k/a Monster, age 33, both of Baltimore, were convicted after trial and sentenced to 210 months in prison and 15 years in prison, respectively. Former correctional officer Ashley Newton, age 31, of Baltimore, was sentenced to 51 months in prison, after being convicted after trial of participating in racketeering, drug, and money laundering conspiracies, involving the smuggling of drugs and contraband inside the Baltimore City Detention Center (BCDC). U.S. Attorney Rosenstein recognized the efforts of the other members of the Maryland Prison Task Force, including: the Maryland State Police, Prince George’s County Police Department, United States Marshals Office, DEA, Washington-Baltimore High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area and Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI, Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services, Baltimore Police Department, and Maryland Prison Task Force, for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant United States Attorneys Robert R. Harding and Ayn B. Ducao, who are prosecuting this Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force case.
corruption ATLANTA—Two former Georgia Department of Corrections (GDOC) employees, four current Georgia state inmates, three recently paroled inmates, and three others have been charged federally with drug trafficking, extortion, wire fraud conspiracies, wire fraud, and identity theft offenses, as detailed in two indictments unsealed today. Much of the criminal conduct allegedly was committed inside Georgia state prisons. “Prisons serve to punish and rehabilitate convicted offenders and deter crime—not enable it,” said U.S. Attorney John Horn. “These indictments allege that, after being placed in prison to protect society from their criminal behavior, these inmates capitalized on their ready access to cell phones and other contraband to further victimize citizens outside the prisons. Prisons should be a place where we have confidence that inmates are not operating identity theft schemes and drug distribution rings.” “The federal indictments and arrests of these individuals represent not only the larger problems posed by contraband such as cell phones in prisons, but also the joint law enforcement effort to address it,” said J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office. “The FBI will continue to work with its state partners, to include the Georgia Department of Corrections, in addressing the many unique challenges facing correctional facilities and those that work within them”. “Criminals who are able to operate inside correctional facilities and conduct this level of criminal activity are a direct threat to the safety of the public. The GBI is fully committed to working with the Georgia Department of Corrections and the Federal Bureau of Investigation to address this type of crime,” said Vernon Keenan, Director, Georgia Bureau of Investigation. According to U.S. Attorney Horn, the charges and other information presented in court: As alleged in the indictments, the wide-ranging conspiracy involved GDOC employees at Phillips and Valdosta State Prisons who helped smuggle cell phones and other contraband to inmates in exchange for bribe payments. These cell phones were often equipped with touch screens and Internet access that enabled the prisoners to coordinate drug transactions, commit identity theft and credit card fraud, and even post on social media and buy products online. According to the indictment, the charged GDOC employees allegedly helped smuggle methamphetamine, prescription pain medication, marijuana, liquor, tobacco, and take-out food into the prisons. At times, the inmates even bragged about watching streaming movies while in solitary confinement. In one instance, an inmate allegedly used his contraband cell phone to arrange a “hit” on another inmate whom he suspected of cooperating with law enforcement. The following individuals were arrested today, and most of the defendants made their initial appearances before United States Magistrate Judge Janet F. King: Former GDOC employees who were charged are: Anekra Artina Williams, 20, of Nashville, Georgia, was a GDOC guard at Valdosta State Prison, in Valdosta, Georgia. Williams has been charged with one count of conspiring to distribute at least 50 grams of methamphetamine; one count of distributing methamphetamine; and one count of conspiring to interfere with commerce by extortion. Charonda Edwards, a/k/a “John,” 29, of Decatur, Georgia, was a kitchen worker at Phillips State Prison, in Buford, Georgia. Edwards has been charged with one count of conspiring to distribute methamphetamine and marijuana; and one count of interfering with commerce by extortion. The current GDOC inmates who were charged are: Donald Howard Hinley, 51, was an inmate at Valdosta State Prison prior to his arrest, has been charged with one count of conspiring to distribute at least 50 grams of methamphetamine; one count of distributing at least 50 grams of methamphetamine; and three counts of distributing methamphetamine. Mims Morris, 24, who was an inmate at Phillips State Prison prior to his arrest, has been charged with one count of conspiring to distribute methamphetamine and marijuana; two counts of conspiring to commit wire fraud; two counts of committing wire fraud; and two counts of aggravated identity theft. Johnathan Silvers, a/k/a “Turtle,” 28, who was an inmate at Phillips State Prison prior to his arrest, has been charged with one count of conspiring to distribute methamphetamine and marijuana. Adam Smith, 30, who was an inmate at Phillips State Prison prior to his arrest, has been charged with one count of conspiring to distribute methamphetamine and marijuana. The paroled GDOC inmates who were charged are: Ruben Ruiz, a/k/a “Flaco” and “Scrappy,” 34, of Gainesville, Georgia, has been charged with one count of conspiring to distribute at least 50 grams of methamphetamine. Ruiz was paroled in March 2014 from GDOC custody after serving a 10-year sentence. William A. Matthews, a/k/a “Two Young,” 30, of Union City, Georgia, has been charged with one count of conspiring to distribute at least 50 grams of methamphetamine; and one count of distributing methamphetamine. Matthews was paroled in August 2014 from GDOC custody after serving a 10-year sentence. Kansas Bertollini, a/k/a “Guido,” 35, of Kathleen, Georgia, has been charged with one count of conspiring to distribute at least 50 grams of methamphetamine; and one count of distributing at least 50 grams methamphetamine. Bertollini was paroled in June 2014 from GDOC custody after serving an 11-year sentence. The other individuals who were charged are: Tiffany Allen, 27, of Cleveland, Georgia, has been charged with two counts of conspiring to commit wire fraud; and two counts of aggravated identity theft. Monique Kinney, a/k/a Monique Reed, 26, of Augusta, Georgia. Kinney was charged with one count of conspiring to commit wire fraud; and one count of aggravated identity theft. Opal Marie Hayden, 58, of Acworth, Georgia, has been charged with one count of conspiring to distribute at least 50 grams of methamphetamine; and three counts of distributing methamphetamine. Valdosta State Prison The GDOC is an agency of the State of Georgia and responsible for overseeing the operations of state prisons. Over 55,000 inmates are incarcerated in Georgia state prisons. According to the indictment, GDOC inmates increasingly obtain and use cellular telephones to further their criminal activities while incarcerated. Among other things, cellular telephones are used to traffic drugs, commit fraud schemes, and organize criminal activity both inside and outside of prison. Inmates regularly buy and sell cellular telephones inside of prison, many of which are the latest models. The first of two indictments focuses on Valdosta State Prison (VSP), which is located in Valdosta, Georgia, and houses adult male inmates. Donald Hinley was an inmate at VSP. The Smuggling Scheme The indictment alleges that inmates typically relied on prison employees to smuggle cellular telephones and other contraband into VSP. In 2014 and 2015, Hinley routinely arranged to have telephones, cigarettes, liquor, prescription pain medication, and illegal drugs smuggled into the prison by prison employees. Anekra Williams was a GDOC corrections officer who allegedly smuggled contraband into VSP in exchange for bribe payments. The indictment alleges that Williams smuggled drugs, tobacco and other items requested by inmates into VSP. On one such occasion, Williams allegedly smuggled methamphetamine and prescription pain medication into the prison for Hinley in exchange for $500. In order to assist with the smuggling scheme, Hinley allegedly arranged to have the contraband packaged in a manner to avoid detection by other prison security officers. Drug Trafficking from Inside Prison The indictment alleges that while an inmate at VSP, Hinley coordinated a network of illegal drug suppliers and couriers, from August 2014 through April 2015 that included, among others, Opal Marie Hayden, Ruben Ruiz, William Matthews, Kansas Bertollini, and Williams. With their assistance, Hinley allegedly brokered a number of significant drug transactions in Atlanta and in other areas of Georgia. On multiple occasions, Hinley coordinated the purchase and sale of illegal narcotics by cell phone. In recorded telephone calls, Hinley allegedly bragged “We have good prices and good product.” The indictment also alleges that in one encounter, Hinley used his contraband cell telephone to call an inmate he knew at Telfair State Prison (TSP) and instructed his associate to kill another TSP prisoner after Hinley confirmed that the inmate was “a snitch” and was likely a prosecution witness against Hinley’s girlfriend. At the time, Hinley’s girlfriend worked as a drug courier in Hinley’s drug organization and was a defendant in a state narcotics case. Hinley allegedly ordered his associate to “shoot every one” of the witness’ family members. Immediately after law enforcement learned of Hinley’s plan, the cooperating inmate was placed in protective custody. Phillips State Prison The second indictment focuses on Phillips State Prison (PSP), which is located in Buford, Georgia, and houses adult male inmates. Mims Morris (Morris), Johnathan Silvers (Silvers), and Adam Smith (Smith) were inmates at PSP and were members of the Ghostface Gang. The indictment alleges that while they were inmates at PSP, both Morris and Silvers allegedly obtained cellular telephones and used them to traffic drugs and commit fraud. Morris and Silvers even obtained cellular telephones while they were in segregated custody, charging the devices using the light fixtures in their cells. Silvers allegedly bragged that his cellmate was watching a movie on his cellular telephone while they were in the “hole” together. In a recorded telephone call, Morris talked about posting on Facebook and buying shoes on the Internet. Morris boasted that the guards all knew he had a cellular telephone in segregated confinement. The indictment also alleges that Tiffany Allen (Allen) and Monique Kinney (Kinney) assisted Morris by using stolen identities to commit fraud. Allen and Kinney communicated with Morris by cellular telephone while he was an inmate at PSP. The Smuggling Scheme The indictment alleges that, like VSP, inmates relied on prison employees to bring in cellular telephones and other contraband to PSP. Charonda Edwards (Edwards) was a GDOC contract employee who worked in the kitchen at the prison. Edwards allegedly obtained drugs, tobacco, and other items requested by Silvers in exchange for payment. Edwards then smuggled the items into prison and hid them so the inmates could pick up the contraband. Edwards also allegedly provided valuable information to Silvers in the process such as when the prison would be “locked down.” Morris, Silvers, and Edwards allegedly relied on prison orderlies and other inmates inside PSP to move drugs, cellular telephones and other items throughout the prison. Morris and Silvers sold the smuggled drugs and contraband to other inmates. In one recorded call, Silvers said that, even though they were in the “hole,” he had food, cigarettes and marijuana, and even expected to get methamphetamine in the near future. Silvers paid Edwards using reloadable prepaid credit cards. Fraud and Theft from Inside Prison The indictment alleges that from June 2014 to September 2014, Morris allegedly used his contraband cellular telephone to perpetuate various fraud schemes from inside prison with the assistance of associates on the outside, including Kinney and Allen. The targeted victims were credit card companies and their customers, and job-seekers responding to online advertisements for work. The Credit Card Scheme The indictment alleges that on August 26, 2014, Morris called victim “B.T.,” pretending to be a Discover Card representative, working in the “Fraudulent Specialist Department.” He informed B.T. that there were fraudulent charges on her credit card and he needed her credit card number to verify her identity. At his urging, B.T. eventually provided her credit card number to Morris. While pretending to be B.T., Morris allegedly called a Discover Card representative and was able to access her Discover card account. During the call, Morris used B.T.’s Social Security number and credit card number to authorize a $2,200 transfer to another credit card Morris controlled. Later, Morris allegedly pretended he was B.T. and asked the representative to change the telephone number on the account because he was going to be out of town for several weeks. The Discover representative changed the telephone number to Morris’s prison cell phone. On September 3, 2014, Morris allegedly used B.T.’s information to apply for additional credit cards. With the help of Kinney, Morris was approved for a Capital One Platinum Card using B.T.’s personal information. The Fake Employment Scheme On August 31, 2014, Morris texted Allen, telling her he wanted to act as though he was hiring people. Morris allegedly explained that he would obtain personal information from people seeking work and then would order debit cards in their names, using their personal information. Morris commented to Allen that it was “easy as pie” to get someone’s personal information. The indictment alleges Morris directed Allen to post a fraudulent advertisement on Craigslist.com for job applicants for non-existent construction and roofing jobs. Morris provided a fake company name and an address in Sacramento, California, and even provided his cellular telephone in prison as the telephone number for the fake company so the victims would call him directly and provide their personal information. Allen allegedly attempted to post this information on Craigslist for Morris. Prison Investigation Also Uncovers Illegal Machine Gun Sales During the federal investigation, FBI agents learned that a woman, later identified as Tiffany Goodson, 34, of Toccoa, Georgia, telephoned an inmate at Jenkins Correctional Center, a privately owned state prison in Millen, Georgia. The inmate received Goodson’s telephone call on a contraband prison cell phone. During that call, Goodson, a convicted felon, allegedly informed the inmate that she knew a man who was willing to build and sell fully automatic machine guns. This inmate later cooperated with federal authorities. When that information reached the FBI, federal agents identified Goodson and used an undercover agent to purchase two machine guns from her. The agents also identified Goodson’s gun supplier as Robert Burns, 30, of Wahalla, South Carolina. On February 15, 2015, during an undercover operation arranged by the FBI, Mr. Burns drove from South Carolina to Stephens County, Georgia, where he sold Goodson a fully automatic rifle with an obliterated serial number for $2,500. On July 7, 2015, Goodson and Burns were indicted by a federal grand jury for their roles in a conspiracy to sell illegal machine guns. Earlier today, Mr. Burns pleaded guilty before Senior U.S. District Court Judge Orinda D. Evans. During his plea hearing, Mr. Burns admitted to making and supplying machine guns and to possessing an illegal machine gun with an obliterated serial number. Ms. Goodson’s charges are pending. Members of the public are reminded that the indictments only contains charges. The defendants are presumed innocent of the charges and it will be the government’s burden to prove the defendants’ guilt beyond a reasonable doubt at trial. These cases are being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Georgia Bureau of Investigations, and the Georgia Department of Corrections Office of Professional Standards. First Assistant United States Attorney Kurt R. Erskine, Assistant United States Attorneys Brent Alan Gray and John S. Ghose, and Special Assistant United States Attorneys Erin E. Sanders and Trevor Wilmot are prosecuting these cases. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.PressEmails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia is http://www.justice.gov/usao-ndga.
corruption The owner of a business in Cleveland’s Lee-Harvard neighborhood was indicted for paying bribes to city officials in order to receive payment from a $25,000 city grant despite failing to achieve the equal opportunity employment goals required by the grant agreement, said Steven M. Dettelbach, U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio, and Stephen D. Anthony, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI’s Cleveland office. Ashwani “Eddie” Adya, 49, of Solon, was indicted on one count of conspiracy to commit honest services mail fraud and one count of making a false statement to a law enforcement officer. Adya operated a retail food and beverage business. Lawrence Payten worked at a nonprofit community organization that promoted commercial development in Cleveland’s Lee-Harvard neighborhood. Lejon C. Woods worked as a contract compliance officer in the City of Cleveland’s Office of Equal Opportunity. Woods previously pleaded guilty to receiving bribes from three other businesses and a criminal case against Payten is pending. Between November 2009 and August 2010, Adya paid cash bribes to Payten and Woods. Adya and the City of Cleveland entered into Neighborhood Capital Funds Grant Agreement as part of Adya opening a business in Cleveland’s Lee-Harvard neighborhood, according to the indictment. The city awards funds for certain construction or rehabilitation projects and the recipients are subject to certain hiring goals. In this project, the Office of Equal Opportunity set a subcontractor participation goal of 15 percent for minority business enterprises, 7 percent for female business enterprises and 8 percent for Cleveland Area Small Businesses, according to the indictment. Adya, Payten and Woods met at City Hall in November 2009. Adya and Payten told Woods that the businessman was not going to meet the OEO subcontractor guidelines and asked Woods to help them cover up the lack of compliance so the businessman could still receive the $25,000 Neighborhood Capital Funds disbursement, according to the indictment. About two weeks later, Adya, Payten and Woods met again. Adya paid Woods $1,500, promised Woods an additional $1,500 and promised Payten $2,500 for facilitating the arrangement between Woods and the businessman, according to the indictment. Woods then falsified the OEO compliance documents relating to the construction project. On August 20 2010, Adya received a NCF grant check for $25,000. Four days later, Adya gave Woods the additional $1,500, according to the indictment. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Adam Hollingsworth and Henry F. DeBaggis following an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. If convicted, the defendant’s sentence will be determined by the court after a review of the federal sentencing guidelines and factors unique to the case, including the defendant’s prior criminal record (if any), the defendant’s role in the offense and the characteristics of the violation. An indictment is only a charge and is not evidence of guilt. A defendant is entitled to a fair trial in which it will be the government’s burden to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption Former Miami Springs Police Department (MSPD) Sergeant Andres Quintanilla was sentenced today to nine years in prison by U.S. District Court Chief Judge Michael K. Moore.   Quintanilla had previously pleaded guilty to receiving bribes from an undercover FBI confidential source, who Quintanilla believed was a narcotics trafficker. Wifredo A. Ferrer, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida and George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, FBI, Miami Field Office made the announcement.  Andres Quintanilla, 34, had previously pleaded guilty to attempting to affect commerce by extortion under color of official right, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1951(a).  Quintanilla was sentenced to 108 months in prison, to be followed by a year of supervised release.  He was also ordered to pay a $5,000 fine and to forfeit an additional $3,700 that had been paid to him by the confidential source. According to court documents, in October 2014, a FBI confidential source (CS) informed Quintanilla that he (the CS) was a drug trafficker.  Rather than arrest the CS, or open an investigation, Quintanilla offered to help the CS’s drug trafficking business.  During a series of recorded meetings, Quintanilla offered advice on how the CS should run his drug trafficking business, provided the location of an unmarked Miami-Dade Police Department narcotics office, provided the names of three Miami-Dade Police Department officers, and promised to provide photographs of officers in the future. In addition, Quintanilla ran the name of a purported drug dealer in a law enforcement database when asked to do so by CS. By December 2014, Quintanilla had agreed to act as an escort during a purported 10 kilogram cocaine deal.  Under FBI direction, the CS told Quintanilla that the CS needed a safe location in Miami Springs where the CS could exchange 10 kilograms of cocaine for $250,000.  Quintanilla chose a location for the transaction to take place and, on the date of the transaction, the FBI filmed and recorded Quintanilla meeting with the CS and viewing the cocaine.   After the purported deal took place with second undercover CS acting as a drug dealer, Quintanilla then followed the CS’s vehicle to an express package service center, where Quintanilla believed that the CS would ship the $250,000 of drug proceeds to New York.  Quintanilla participated in the transaction in uniform, while driving his MSPD marked vehicle.  In exchange for his assistance, Quintanilla accepted $3,500 in bribe payments. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI Miami Area Corruption Task Force.  This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Anthony Lacosta.  A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Southern District of Florida at www.flsd.uscourts.gov or on http://pacer.flsd.uscourts.gov.
corruption HARRISBURG—The United States Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania announced today that a former Schuylkill County employee, Virginia G. Kunigonis, age 54, of Pottsville, Pennsylvania, has been charged with embezzling $452,186 from the Schuylkill County Conservation District between 2007 and 2014. According to U.S. Attorney Peter Smith, an Information filed with United States District Court today in Harrisburg, Kunigonis was charged with one count of Theft From Programs Receiving Federal Funds. The Information alleges Kunigonis forged 437 Conservation District checks totaling $410,435 between October of 2007 and May of 2014. The Information also alleges Kunigonis used a Conservation District credit card to pay an additional $41,751 in personal expenses during that same time period. The Information alleges the Schuylkill County Conservation District received in excess of $10,000 in federal grant monies each year between 2007 and 2014. The Information was filed pursuant to a plea agreement that was also filed with the Court. In the plea agreement Kunigonis agreed to plead guilty to the one count Information, to cooperate with the government, to make restitution as ordered by the court, and to forfeit the sum of $452,186, all of her interests in her Pottsville, PA residence, and all of her interests in her Schuylkill County retirement account, net of taxes, to the government. According to the Information, Virginia Kunigonis began working as an administrative assistant for the Schuylkill County Conservation District in approximately 2002. Prior to that she worked in various capacities for Schuylkill County since 1986. No date has yet been scheduled for the entry of Kunigonis’ guilty plea. The case was investigated by the Scranton Office of the FBI in conjunction with the Pennsylvania State Police and is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Kim Douglas Daniel. Indictments and Criminal Informations are only allegations. All persons charged are presumed to be innocent unless and until found guilty in court. A sentence following a finding of guilt is imposed by the Judge after consideration of the applicable federal sentencing statutes and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines. The maximum penalty for Health Care Fraud is 10 years of imprisonment, a term of supervised release following imprisonment, and a fine. The maximum term of imprisonment for False Statements in Health Care Matters is five years’ imprisonment. Under the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, the Judge is also required to consider and weigh a number of factors, including the nature, circumstances and seriousness of the offense; the history and characteristics of the defendant; and the need to punish the defendant, protect the public and provide for the defendant’s educational, vocational and medical needs. For these reasons, the statutory maximum penalty for the offense is not an accurate indicator of the potential sentence for a specific defendant.
corruption JACKSON, MS—A criminal complaint has been filed against Jackson Police Officer Bryan Jones, 44, of Jackson, charging him with extortion by use of his position as a police officer, announced U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis and FBI Special Agent in Charge Donald Alway. The criminal complaint alleges that Jones used his position as a Jackson Police Officer to extort money. According to the affidavit filed in support of the criminal complaint, Jones assisted drug dealers by conducting illegal traffic stops, searches, and seizures on competitors or rival drug dealers. On April 15, 2015, Jones illegally stopped a vehicle and seized $5,000 from someone he believed to be a drug dealer coming into Jackson to purchase drugs. The affidavit further states that Jones conducted an illegal stop on June 23, 2014 and seized cash from someone he believed to be a drug dealer. The cash taken by Jones on both occasions was never recorded or submitted to the Jackson Police Department; instead the cash was divided between Jones and another person. United States Attorney Gregory K. Davis praised the efforts of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and would like to thank Chief Lee Vance and the Jackson Police Department for their assistance in this matter. Jones will appear in federal court for an initial appearance today at 2:00 p.m. before U.S. Magistrate Judge Linda R. Anderson. The offense charged in the complaint carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison, and up to a $250,000 fine. This case will be prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Mary Helen Wall and Erin Chalk. A criminal complaint is not a finding of guilt. An individual charged by criminal complaint is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty at some later criminal proceedings.
corruption A former uniformed police officer with the City of Miami Police Department is charged with accepting bribes. Wifredo A. Ferrer, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, FBI, Miami Field Office, and Rodolfo Llanes, Chief, City of Miami Police Department (MPD) made the announcement. On September 21, 2015, Julio Ruiz made his initial appearance in federal court on a Criminal Information filed by the U.S. Attorney’s Office. In that Information, Ruiz is charged with three counts of affecting commerce by extortion under color of official right, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1951(a). Specifically, Ruiz is charged with accepting three bribe payments between April 26 and June 12, 2013, for a total sum of $1,800 cash and a cellular telephone. In exchange for the bribe payments, the Information alleges Ruiz misused his position as a police officer by providing access to, and information regarding, traffic accidents within the jurisdiction of the City of Miami police department. Title 18, United States Code, Section 1951(a) carries a maximum sentence of 20 years’ imprisonment, a maximum fine of $250,000, and a term of supervised release of up to three years. The case has been assigned to United States District Court Judge Cecilia M. Altonaga. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI Miami Area Corruption Task Force and the City of Miami Police Department Internal Affairs Division. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Anthony Lacosta. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Southern District of Florida at www.flsd.uscourts.gov or on http://pacer.flsd.uscourts.gov.
corruption A Revenue Agent for the Internal Revenue Service was arrested this morning after he accepted payment from a Seattle businessman after allegedly soliciting a bribe, announced U.S. Attorney Annette L. Hayes. PAUL G. HURLEY, 42, of Seattle, is charged with Soliciting and Agreeing to Receive a Bribe by a Public Official and two counts of Receiving a Bribe by a Public Official. HURLEY appeared in U.S. District Court in Seattle this afternoon and was released on his personal recognizance. A preliminary hearing on the charges is scheduled for October 5, 2015. According to the criminal complaint, HURLEY has been a revenue agent with the IRS since 2009. Between July and September 2015, HURLEY was involved in the audit of the 2013 and 2014 tax returns of a Seattle marijuana business. Because marijuana remains illegal under federal law, no business deductions are allowed on federal tax returns and the gross revenue is taxable. HURLEY presented the owner of the marijuana business with his tax bill for both years, totaling more than $290,000. However, HURLEY told the business owner he had saved the business owner more than a million dollars. HURLEY then asked the business owner for $20,000 in cash. The business owner alerted his lawyer, who contacted law enforcement. Law enforcement observed two meetings where HURLEY accepted money delivered by the business owner. HURLEY was arrested following the second meeting this morning. Both offenses, Soliciting and Agreeing to Receive a Bribe by a Public Official and Receiving a Bribe by a Public Official are punishable by up to 15 years’ imprisonment and a $250,000 fine. The charges contained in the complaint are only allegations. A person is presumed innocent unless and until he or she is proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law. The case is being investigated by the FBI and the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (“TIGTA”). The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Justin Arnold. Press contact for the U.S. Attorney’s Office is Public Affairs Officer Emily Langlie at (206) 553-4110 or Emily.Langlie@usdoj.gov.
corruption Former Detroit City Treasurer Jeffrey Beasley was sentenced to eleven years in prison today for taking bribes and kickbacks from businessmen who sought and received hundreds of millions of dollars from Detroit’s two pension systems, U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade announced today. McQuade was joined in the announcement by FBI Acting Special Agent in Charge John Shoup, IRS Special Agent in Charge Jarod J. Koopman, and James Vanderberg, Special Agent in Charge for the U.S. Department of Labor, Office of Inspector General, Office of Labor Racketeering and Fraud Investigations in Chicago. During a hearing today before U.S. District Judge Nancy G. Edmunds, Beasley, 46, of Chicago, was sentenced to eleven years in prison and a term of supervised release based on his four convictions by a jury for honest services fraud conspiracy, extortion and bribery. Beasley, who was appointed by former Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick, served as Treasurer of Detroit from 2006 through September 2008. As Treasurer, Beasley oversaw Detroit’s two pension systems and served as a Trustee for both Detroit’s General Retirement System and the Police and Fire Retirement System. Detroit’s two pension systems service more than 30,000 pensioners, beneficiaries, and city employees. While city Treasurer, Beasley demanded and accepted bribes of more than $250,000 in cash, all-expense paid trips to Miami Beach, Las Vegas and the Turks and Caicos Islands, an $800 set of golf clubs, massages, limousine rides, free liquor, meals and entertainment, among other things of value. Beasley accepted these bribes and kickbacks from men seeking investment money from the two Detroit pension systems, including investment sponsors, third party marketers and the former General Counsel of the pension systems, Ronald Zajac. In addition, Beasley pressured businessmen appearing before the pensions systems to contribute more than $400,000 to the Kilpatrick Civic Fund in exchange for pension system investment money. The former Mayor then used the civic fund money as a slush fund for personal and political expenses. The investigation of corruption in the pension systems of Detroit resulted in a number of convictions. Four other men convicted for their involvement in paying and accepting bribes in connection with the Detroit pension system will be sentenced over the next two weeks. They are: Paul Stewart, a former police officer, pension trustee, and Vice President of the Detroit Police Officer’s Association; Chauncey Mayfield, the former CEO of Mayfield Gentry Realty Advisors; Roy Dixon, the former CEO of Onyx Capital Advisors; and George Stanton, the former Chief of Staff of a Detroit city councilwoman and pension trustee. In addition, a number of other defendants were convicted in relation to the pension fund investigation, including (1) Monica Conyers, a former Trustee of the General Retirement System and former member of the Detroit city council, for conspiracy to take bribes, including bribes relating to a proposed multi-million dollar pension fund investment in Wireless Resources and a $10,000 extortion payment relating to the Police and Fire Retirement System’s investment in the Romulus Deep Injection Waste Well; (2) Samuel L. Riddle, Conyers’ Chief of Staff, for conspiracy to commit bribery and extortion relating to the Wireless Resources and Romulus Deep Injection Well investments; (3) DeDan Milton, a former Trustee of Detroit’s two pension funds; (4) Andrew Park, an owner of Asian Village, who paid a bribe to obtain a $2.75 million loan from Detroit’s General Retirement System; (5) Derrick Miller, former Chief Information Officer of Detroit, who accepted the bribe from Park and who took a kickback of more than $500,000 on a $44 million investment by Detroit’s two pension funds; and (6) the late Ronald Zajac, former General Counsel of Detroit’s two pension systems for over 30 years, who was convicted prior to his death of collecting and delivering almost $20,000 in cash bribes to trustees in order to secure a huge raise in salary for himself. United States Attorney McQuade said, “Beasley robbed city employees and retirees of pension benefits they had earned through their hard work and dedication to public service. The court’s sentence today sends a strong message that public officials will be punished when they abuse their positions of trust to personally profit at the expense of pensioners.” “With this sentencing, we move closer to closing an ugly chapter of corruption in Detroit”, said John R. Shoup, Acting Special Agent in Charge of the FBI Detroit Division. “We are committed to protecting our citizens from officials who abuse their positions of trust, and steal from the hard-working people of this city.” “IRS Criminal Investigation is committed to working with the U.S. Attorney’s Office and its law enforcement partners to detect and investigate public officials that choose to abuse their position for their own personal enrichment”, said Special Agent in Charge Jarod J. Koopman. “Public officials who betray their trust by extorting financial vendors undermine the viability of pension plans like the City of Detroit Retirement System. Corrupt actions have cheated hard working City of Detroit employees out of what they rightfully earned. Our office will continue to work with the United States Attorney’s Office and our law enforcement partners to detect and deter crimes against American workers and their benefits,” stated James Vanderberg, Special Agent in Charge for the U.S. Department of Labor, Office of Inspector General, Office of Labor Racketeering and Fraud Investigations in Chicago. The case was investigated by agents of the FBI, the Internal Revenue Service, and the Department of Labor, Office of Inspector General, Office of Labor Racketeering and Fraud Investigations. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys David A. Gardey, Stephanie Dawkins Davis, and Julie Beck.
corruption CHICAGO—A former clerk for the Cook County Recorder of Deeds accepted a $200 cash bribe in exchange for preparing and agreeing to record a back-dated deed on an Oak Park home, according to a federal indictment announced today. REGINA TAYLOR accepted the bribe from an individual who purportedly wanted to add a relative’s name to the deed of a residence in Oak Park, according to the indictment. Unbeknownst to Taylor, the individual was actually an undercover law enforcement agent, the indictment states. The indictment was returned Thursday in U.S. District Court in Chicago. It charges Taylor, 59, of Chicago, with one count of mail fraud and two counts of wire fraud. Taylor will be arraigned before U.S. District Judge Sara L. Ellis on Sept. 24, 2015, at 10:00 a.m. According to the indictment, Taylor offered and agreed to prepare a false quit claim deed that added the purported relative to the deed of the Oak Park property, which was allegedly owned by three deceased individuals. Taylor told the undercover agent that she usually charges $500 to prepare and record the fraudulent documents, but that in this instance she was willing to charge only $200, the indictment states. Taylor directed the undercover agent not to tell anyone that the other individuals on the deed were deceased, according to the indictment. She then prepared a fraudulent quit claim deed and back-dated it by 18 months, confirming the purported relative as a grantee. After giving the fraudulent quit claim deed to the undercover agent to get stamped at the Village of Oak Park, the undercover agent gave Taylor $200 in cash, according to the indictment. Taylor further directed the undercover agent to bring back the stamped copy of the fraudulent deed so that Taylor could file it at the Office of the Cook County Recorder of Deeds, according to the indictment. The indictment was announced by Zachary T. Fardon, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois; and John A. Brown, Acting Special Agent-in-Charge of the Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The mail fraud charge carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison, a $250,000.00 fine and mandatory restitution. Each count of wire fraud is punishable by a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison and a maximum fine of $250,000 or twice the gross gain or gross loss resulting from the offense, whichever is greater. If convicted, the Court must impose a reasonable sentence under federal sentencing statutes and the advisory United States Sentencing Guidelines. The public is reminded that an indictment contains only charges and is not evidence of guilt. The defendant is presumed innocent and is entitled to a fair trial at which the government has the burden of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. The government is represented by Assistant United States Attorney Megan Church.
corruption A former Navy noncommissioned officer pleaded guilty today to accepting approximately $25,000 in cash bribes from vendors while he served in Afghanistan. The announcement was made by Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, Acting U.S. Attorney Christopher P. Canova of the Northern District of Florida, Assistant Director in Charge Paul M. Abbate of the FBI’s Washington, D.C., Field Office, Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR) John F. Sopko, Director Frank Robey of the Major Procurement Fraud Unit of the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command (Army CID), Acting Special Agent in Charge Paul Sternal of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS) Mid-Atlantic Field Office and Brigadier General Keith M. Givens of the Air Force Office of Special Investigations (Air Force OSI). Donald P. Bunch, 46, of Pace, Florida, pleaded guilty before Senior U.S. District Judge Roger Vinson of the Northern District of Florida to a one-count information charging him with accepting bribes. Sentencing is scheduled to take place on Dec. 8, 2015. From February to August 2009, Bunch worked as an U.S. Navy E8 senior chief at the Humanitarian Assistance Yard (HA Yard) at Bagram Airfield in Afghanistan. The HA Yard purchased supplies from local Afghan vendors for use as part of the Commander’s Emergency Response Program, which enabled U.S. military commanders to respond to urgent humanitarian relief requirements in Afghanistan. Bunch was responsible for replenishing food and supplies such as rice, beans and clothing at the HA Yard, and for selecting vendors from a pre-determined list to provide the necessary items. In connection with his guilty plea, Bunch admitted that he had been instructed by his predecessor to rotate among the vendors. According to admissions made in connection with his plea agreement, certain Afghan vendors offered, and Bunch accepted, money for the purpose of influencing his selection of vendors. Bunch admitted that he received a total of approximately $25,000 from the vendors and that, as a result, he secured on their behalf more frequent and lucrative contracts. Bunch also admitted that he sent greeting cards stuffed with proceeds of the bribes to his wife at their residence in Florida, and that they used the money to pay for the construction of a new home. This case was investigated by the FBI, SIGAR, Army CID, DCIS and Air Force OSI. This case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Daniel P. Butler of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney David L. Goldberg of the Northern District of Florida.
corruption HAMMOND—United States Attorney David A. Capp announced today that an Indictment was filed against Pamela Griffin Fizzelle, 52, of Merrillville, Indiana for seven counts of Hobbs Act Extortion. According to documents filed in the case, Frizzelle, an employee of the Township Assessor’s Office, allegedly solicited money from business owners, who’s businesses engaged in interstate commerce, in exchange for reducing or attempting to reduce tax assessments on or about the following dates: March 2013 from Business Owner 1 for $1000; February 2014 from Business Owner 2 for $200; February 2014 from Business Owner 3 for $600; October 14, 2014 from Business Owner 2 for $400; October 23, 2014 from Business Owner 2 for $200 on behalf of Business Owner 4; October 24, 2014 from Business Owner 4 for $600; and January 25, 2015 from Business Owner 5 for $1000. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Gary T. Bell. The United States Attorney’s Office emphasized that an Indictment is merely an allegation and that all persons charged are presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty in court. If convicted in court, any specific sentence to be imposed will be determined by the judge after a consideration of federal sentencing statutes and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines.
corruption BALTIMORE, MD—Larry Lowry, age 61, of Orchard Beach, Maryland, pleaded guilty today to conspiracy and bribery in connection with a scheme in which commercial haulers paid Department of Public Works (DPW) employees cash in return for allowing the haulers to deposit trash at the Quarantine Road Landfill (Landfill) without paying the required disposal fees. The plea agreement was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Kevin Perkins of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Robert H. Pearre, Jr., Inspector General, City of Baltimore Office of Inspector General; Special Agent in Charge Thomas Jankowski of the Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation, Washington, D.C. Field Office; and Colonel William M. Pallozzi, Superintendent of the Maryland State Police. The DPW’s Bureau of Solid Waste is responsible for managing Baltimore City’s waste management services, including overseeing citizen drop-off centers, such as the Northwest Transfer Station (NWTS) and the Landfill. Baltimore City’s waste management system generates revenue for the City by collecting and selling recyclable scrap metal dumped at the City’s trash collection facilities. The City contracts with private salvage companies to purchase and remove scrap metal from its trash collection facilities. DPW employees at the Landfill and NWTS are required to place the recyclable scrap metal in separate bins provided by the salvage companies. The salvage companies regularly pick up the scrap metal and, based on predetermined prices per ton, the salvage companies pay the City for the value of the scrap metal. Baltimore City residents can deposit small amounts of trash and/or recyclables in dumpsters located near the main entrance of the Landfill, free of charge. Individuals or companies commercially hauling trash that have registered their vehicles with the City and obtained Landfill permits, as well as Baltimore City residents with larger loads, must deposit their trash in an open area located farther within the Landfill. Commercial haulers of trash that meet certain vehicle weight limitations must, in addition to purchasing a Landfill permit, pay a waste disposal fee of $67.50 per ton of trash deposited at the Landfill. DPW employees assigned as scale house operators weigh each truck as it enters the Landfill, which is recorded on a computerized point-of-sale system. To activate the system and record a particular transaction, DPW employees must enter the tag number of the truck and a corresponding billing code. The scale house operators reweigh each truck as it leaves the Landfill. The net weight of the deposited trash and the required disposal fee is then calculated and printed on a receipt that is handed to the driver. According to his plea agreement, beginning in 1988, Lowry was in the business of collecting and hauling trash to the Landfill when he learned from a friend that he could avoid paying the disposal fee if he paid a cash bribe to the scale house operators. The friend introduced Lowry to William Nemec and others to whom Lowry paid $100 per trip in lieu of the usual dumping fee. This continued for approximately two years until Lowry stopped using the Landfill. In 2010, Lowry approached Nemec and told him that he wanted to start using the Landfill again for free. Thereafter Lowry paid a $100 cash bribe, usually to Nemec, but sometimes to others. Paying the $100 bribe for each trip he made to the Landfill saved Lowry thousands of dollars in fees each month. When Lowry first started paying the bibes he would hand the money to the scale operator through the outbound window at the scale house. Later, he usually met Nemec at an off-site location where he would pay a week’s worth of bribes or more. Lowry always paid the bribes in cash. While he was paying the bribes Lowry received phony receipts from the scale house operators at the outbound window. From July 1, 2014 to May 1, 2015 alone, Williams paid more than $20,000 in bribe payments in lieu of paying the required waste disposal fees, which totaled approximately $60,000. As part of his plea agreement, Lowry has agreed to forfeit and pay restitution of $350,000. Lowry faces a maximum sentence of five years in prison for the conspiracy and 10 years in prison for bribery. U.S. District Judge Marvin J. Garbis has scheduled sentencing for Williams on January 8, 2016 at 10:00 a.m. Former DPW employees Tamara Oliver Washington, age 55, and William Charles Nemec, Sr., age 55, both of Baltimore; and commercial haulers Mustafa Sharif, age 63, of Baltimore, and Adam Williams, Jr., age 52, of Randallstown, have pleaded guilty to their participation in the bribery scheme. Nemec and another DPW employee, Michael Theodore Bennett, age 46, also of Baltimore, have pleaded guilty to a related “junking” scheme. Washington is scheduled to be sentenced on October 20, 2015, Williams on October 21, 2015, Sharif on November 6, 2015, Nemec on November 17, 2015, and Bennett on December 21, 2015. Washington and Nemec have each agreed to the entry of an order to pay $6 million in restitution. Sharif has agreed to forfeit and pay restitution of $500,000 and Williams has agreed to forfeit and pay restitution of $900,000. As part of his plea agreement, Bennett agreed to the entry of an order to pay restitution of $526,273. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI, IRS-CI, Baltimore Office of Inspector General, and Maryland State Police for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant United States Attorney Martin J. Clarke, who is prosecuting the case.
corruption Earlier today in federal court in Brooklyn, former New York State Assemblyman William F. Boyland, Jr. was sentenced to 14 years of incarceration in connection with his conviction at trial of 21 felony counts, including federal programs bribery, conspiracy to violate the Travel Act, extortion, honest services wire fraud, federal programs theft, and conspiracy to commit mail fraud. Boyland committed these offenses by corruptly exploiting his official position representing the 55th Assembly District in Brooklyn, comprising Ocean Hill, Brownsville, Bedford-Stuyvesant, Crown Heights, and Bushwick. As part of the sentence, the Court also ordered Boyland to forfeit $169,410.14 and pay restitution in the amount of $71,339.66 to the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance and $84,270.48 to the New York State Office of the Aging. Today’s proceeding was held before United States District Judge Sandra L. Townes. The sentence was announced by Kelly T. Currie, Acting United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York and Diego Rodriguez, Assistant Director-in-Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), New York Field Office. “As he demonstrated time and again, Boyland, a lawmaker himself, lacked any respect for either the law or his constituents who elected him,” said Acting U.S. Attorney Currie. “Officials who would seek to sell the power and influence of their office to the highest bidder are on notice that they will be held to account for their crimes.” Mr. Currie praised the outstanding work of the FBI and expressed his grateful appreciation to the New York State Comptroller’s Office, the New York State Office of the Aging, the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigations, the New York State Assembly Department of Finance, and the New York City Department of Investigation for their assistance. “Boyland was elected to represent his district, not cash in on them. By repeatedly taking unscrupulous opportunity after opportunity–from bribes to fraudulent vouchers to misappropriation of state funds intended to help seniors–Boyland only showed he was only trying to help himself. Today’s sentencing should serve as a warning to those in public office who seek to profit from their positions rather than legislate from them–they are not above the law. The FBI remains committed to investigating and bringing to justice public officials who seek to misuse their power.” The evidence admitted at trial established that, beginning in January 2007 and continuing through December 2011, Boyland engaged in four corrupt schemes. Carnival Extortion Scheme. In August 2010, Boyland met with a carnival promoter and an undercover FBI agent on multiple occasions to discuss the promoter’s desire to hold carnivals in Boyland’s district, for which government approvals were required. Boyland requested payments in exchange for his assistance, and the promoter agreed. In furtherance of the scheme, Boyland described various ways in which the bribes could be concealed, directed his Assembly staff to assist the promoter obtain government approvals, arranged for a non-profit organization to sponsor the promoter’s carnivals, and directed his staff to give the promoter letters of support on Boyland’s Assembly letterhead. In exchange, the undercover FBI agent paid Boyland three separate bribes—$7,000 in cash, a $3,000 check with the payee line left blank, and $3,800 worth of money orders that were deposited into Boyland’s campaign bank account. Real Estate Scheme. Boyland also accepted the $7,000 cash bribe described above in exchange for undertaking official action to benefit two FBI undercover agents in a purported real estate venture in Boyland’s district. In this scheme, the undercover agents would purchase the former St. Mary’s Hospital in Boyland’s district for $8 million, obtain state grant money to renovate the hospital, and resell it for $15 million to a non-profit organization that Boyland claimed to control. Boyland assured the agents he would use his influence as an Assemblyman to secure state grant money for the project and handle any zoning issues that arose. After accepting the $7,000 cash bribe, Boyland later demanded an additional $250,000 bribe payment from the agents as a condition of using his official position to carry out the scheme. False Voucher Scheme. From January 2007 to December 2011, Boyland submitted over 200 fraudulent vouchers in which he falsely claimed to be in Albany on legislative business when he in fact was not in Albany, including days when he was in New York City meeting with the undercover FBI agents and demanding $250,000 in bribes, days when he was in North Carolina and Virginia visiting with family and friends, and for days when he was in Istanbul, Turkey. In reliance on the false vouchers, New York State paid Boyland over $70,000 in fraudulent mileage expense reimbursements and per diem payments. Theft of State Funds for the Elderly. Between July 2007 and September 2010, Boyland conspired to defraud New York State and the New York State Office of the Aging. Boyland, a member of the Assembly’s Committee on the Aging, steered $200,000 of New York State member item funds to a Brooklyn-based non-profit organization whose purported mission was to provide a “social setting that enable[s] elderly individuals to maintain their independence and remain at home in the community.” Boyland certified that these state funds would not be used for partisan or political purpose, but then directed that the majority of the funds be used to benefit himself and his political campaigns by paying for community events that promoted Boyland. The government’s case is being prosecuted by the Office’s Public Integrity Section. Assistant United States Attorneys Lan X. Nguyen and Marisa Megur Seifan are in charge of the prosecution. Assistant United States Attorney Tanya Hill is responsible for handling the forfeiture of assets. The Defendant: WILLIAM F. BOYLAND, JR. Age: 45 Brooklyn, New York Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption ATLANTA—Raytosha Elliott, a former contracting official with the Georgia National Guard, and the owners of two vendor companies have been sentenced to federal prison for a corruption scheme wherein Elliott awarded contracts to the vendors in exchange for illegal kickbacks. “Elliott took advantage of her position with the Georgia National Guard, and awarded no-bid contracts to her friends in exchange for illegal kickbacks,” said U.S. Attorney John Horn. “She and two of her friends stole over $150,000 in funds that were intended to maintain defense facilities and instead spent the money on themselves.” “The sentencing of these individuals to federal prison will not only hold them accountable for their greed based criminal conduct, but will also send a clear message to others that might consider a similar scheme. The FBI will continue to work with its various law enforcement partners to ensure that those individuals engaged in these types of activities are identified, investigated and presented for federal prosecution,” said J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office. “Corruption at any level diminishes the hard work and dedication of the thousands of government employees who are dedicated to providing honest services to the American public,” stated Veronica F. Hyman-Pillot, Acting Special Agent in Charge. “IRS Criminal Investigation stands committed to weed out individuals who misuse their job as a path to financial success by using greed and corruption.” “This is a prime example of our determination, along with our fellow law enforcement agencies, to investigate allegations of criminal activity and corruption involving the National Guard and other DOD entities,” said Frank Robey, Director of the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command’s Major Procurement Fraud Unit. “Regardless of the ’scope and size’ of the allegations, our CID Special Agents are committed to working side-by-side with other agencies to help eradicate this type of activity.” “The Defense Criminal Investigative Service is committed to protecting the integrity of the DOD contracting process, including the GA National Guard,” said John F. Khin, Special Agent in Charge, Southeast Field Office, Defense Criminal Investigative Service. “This sentencing sends a message to individuals who fail to follow the rules that along with our other law enforcement partners, violators will be brought to justice.” “Accountability of violators is paramount when dealing with public corruption. GBI’s partnership with the FBI in the Public Corruption Task Force is essential for continued public trust in Georgia. When those who violate the law and violate public trust are held accountable, and go to jail—if this occurs, it sends a clear message that public corruption is not acceptable in this state,” said Vernon Keenan, Director, Georgia Bureau of Investigation. “We hope these sentences serve as a deterrent to those who desire to pilfer the state and federal governments’ coffers. We also believe this case exemplifies how multiple agencies can work together to achieve a common goal: to serve the public who depends on us to defend the integrity of government programs. As in this case, our office will remain dedicated to protecting taxpayers’ money by continuously pursuing fraud, waste, abuse and corruption within the executive branch of state government,” said Deb Wallace, State Inspector General, Georgia Office of the Inspector General. According to U.S. Attorney Horn, the charges and other information presented in court: From May 2007 through April 2012, Elliott worked for the Georgia Department of Defense, the state agency charged with coordinating and supervising all agencies and functions of the Georgia National Guard. Elliott worked as an Engineering Operations Manager at the Clay National Guard Center, located at Dobbins Air Reserve Base, in Marietta, Georgia. In that position, Elliott worked with engineering firms to develop bid-ready construction projects, prepared bid documents, and oversaw no-bid purchase orders. Under the rules governing the contracting process that Elliott oversaw, projects that cost less than $5,000 did not need to go through a competitive bidding process, allowing Elliott to award the contracts. She certified that the work had been completed for those projects, and facilitated payment to the vendors who allegedly completed such projects. Elliott awarded numerous contracts under $5,000 to vendor companies created by her friends and associates, including co-defendants Lakeysha Ellis and Angela Thicklin (f/k/a Angela Stanback Kinlaw). In return, Ellis and Thicklin paid Elliott kickbacks, equal to 50% of the value of the contracts, for steering contracts to Ellis’ vendor company, Total Source Solution, LLC, and to Thicklin’s vendor company, 3M Construction LLC. Elliott awarded Total Source Solution 17 contracts with a total value of approximately $75,000. Elliott awarded 3M Construction 18 contracts with a total value of approximately $78,000. The contracts were for a variety of services supposedly to be performed by the two companies, including electrical work, landscaping, and HVAC work. But the work was never done. Instead, the defendants split the money awarded under the contracts and spent it on personal items, including travel, meals, and merchandise. As part of the scheme, Elliott owned a company named Tech Group Investments, LLC. Ellis and Thicklin took money they received from the Georgia National Guard contracts, and paid kickbacks to Elliott through that company. Elliott falsely certified that the work had been completed to facilitate payment by the Georgia National Guard. Elliott and Ellis engaged in a similar fraud scheme from January 2009, through May 2011, when Ellis was an accountant at Baumueller-Nuermont Corporation, an industrial equipment company with offices in Atlanta. Her job responsibilities included payroll and paying vendors. While employed as Baumueller-Nuermont’s accountant, Ellis fraudulently funneled money to the defendants’ two sham companies, Total Source Solution and Tech Group Investments. Ellis wrote corporate checks to Total Source Solution, signed her name on the checks, and forged the signature of the Vice President on the checks, to ensure that the checks could be negotiated. Ellis recorded these payments in the check registry to reflect falsely that the checks had been issued to true vendors (such as American Express) when in fact they went to Ellis’ company. As part of the scheme, Ellis also falsified employee records in the corporation’s payroll system to disguise payments to the defendants’ two companies. Ellis created phantom employees by altering the names of real employees (by switching their first and last names) and slightly changing their Social Security numbers. She then caused the payroll system to make fraudulent salary payments to Total Source Solution and Tech Group Investments for these new, non-existent employees. Baumueller-Nuermont lost about $85,000 from this scheme. Raytosha Elliott, 35, of Atlanta, Georgia, was sentenced yesterday to two years, ten months in prison and three years of supervised release, and ordered to pay $115,902 in restitution to the Georgia National Guard and $26,500 in restitution to Baumueller-Nuermont Corporation by U.S. District Judge Amy Totenberg. Elliott was also ordered to pay $20,000 in restitution to WebBank based on a fraudulent loan application she submitted to the bank in September 2013. In that application, Elliott falsely inflated Tech Group Investments’ sales and gross receipts, and provided a fraudulent federal tax return in support of those figures, to obtain the loan. She was also ordered to perform 60 hours community service. Lakeysha Ellis, 37, of Decatur, Georgia, was sentenced to nine months in prison and three years of supervised release, and three months of home confinement. She was also ordered to pay $74,902 in restitution to the Georgia National Guard and $81,487.88 in restitution to Baumueller-Nuermont Corporation. Both defendants previously pleaded guilty to two counts of conspiracy. Today, Angela Thicklin, 45, of Atlanta, Georgia, was sentenced to one year, nine months in prison and three years of supervised release including ordered to pay $78,640 in restitution to the Georgia National Guard by Judge Totenberg. Thicklin previously pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation; the Georgia Bureau of Investigation; the U.S. Department of Defense, Office of Inspector General, Defense Criminal Investigative Service; Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation; the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command; and Deputy Inspectors General of the State of Georgia Office of the Inspector General. Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen H. McClain prosecuted the case.
corruption TAMPA, FL—United States Attorney A. Lee Bentley, III announces the unsealing of an indictment charging Tonia Bright with one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, four counts of obtaining information from a protected computer, and four counts of aggravated identity theft related to her involvement in a stolen identity refund fraud (SIRF) scheme. If convicted, she faces a maximum penalty of 20 years in federal prison on the conspiracy charge, five years in federal prison on each of the computer intrusion offenses, and a two-year term of imprisonment for each aggravated identity theft count that would be served consecutively to the sentence imposed on the other counts. The indictment also notifies Bright that the United States intends to seek a forfeiture money judgment equal to the proceeds of the offenses. According to the indictment, Bright was a civilian employee of the Tampa Police Department (TPD) working as a community service officer in the District 3 station. As part of her duties, Bright took reports from citizens related to incidents not requiring the response of a sworn police officer. In this capacity, she had access to local, state, and federal law enforcement databases, including the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) computerized index. Her use of these databases was restricted to the performance of her authorized duties. As part of the conspiracy, Bright allegedly accessed the personally identifiable information (PII) of individuals using a variety of sources, including NCIC, despite having no legitimate law enforcement purpose for doing so. She then provided the stolen PII to others, including Tampa resident Rita Girven, knowing that the information would be used to commit crimes. Girven and others used the stolen PII to electronically file, and cause others to file, fraudulent federal income tax returns claiming tax refunds that they were not entitled to. The fraudulently obtained tax refunds were deposited onto reloadable debit cards, issued in the conspirators’ names and the names of others, including the identity theft victims’ names. Girven and others then used the debit cards at retail establishments and ATMs to withdraw the funds and shared in the proceeds. Girven previously pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit wire fraud and aggravated identity theft. Her sentencing hearing is scheduled for November 20, 2015. An indictment is merely a formal charge that a defendant has committed one or more violations of federal criminal law, and every defendant is presumed innocent unless, and until, proven guilty. This case was investigated by the Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation Division, the Tampa Police Department, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It will be prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Mandy Riedel.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—James N. Anders, Jr, 59, Willow Grove, PA, Patrick Squires, 58, of Voorhees, NJ, and Ernest Neff, 58, of Newtown, PA, were charged today by indictment with one count of conspiracy and five counts of wire fraud in connection with a scheme to defraud the Bristol Township School District (“BTSD”), announced United States Attorney Zane David Memeger. Anders is the former maintenance director at the school district. The indictment charges that from September 2006 to September 2011, the defendants abused Anders’ position as maintenance director to enrich themselves and to advance their personal business interests, causing a loss to BTSD of approximately $373,453.43. It is alleged that on a dozen transactions between September 2006 and July 1, 2010, Anders, Squires and Neff manipulated the required “quote” process to ensure that a company controlled by defendant Squires would be selected for the transaction. It is also alleged that defendants Anders and Squires split BTSD maintenance department purchases into smaller transactions which could be purchased on the sole authority of defendant Anders, where he could direct those purchases to companies controlled by Squires. It is further alleged that Anders engaged in prohibited self-dealing by using his personal company for BTSD business and disguised the work by billing the work through a Squires-controlled company. If convicted of all charges, the defendants each face a maximum possible statutory sentence of 105 years in prison, with an advisory guidelines range of 46-57 months, three years’ supervised release, a $1.5 million fine, a $600 special assessment, restitution of approximately $373,453.43 and forfeiture. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the United States Department of Education Office of Inspector General. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Joan E. Burnes.
corruption FRESNO, CA—Nicholas Huerta, 33, of Fresno, pleaded guilty today to one count of wire fraud for a fraud scheme involving military recruiting bonuses, United States Attorney Benjamin B. Wagner announced. According to court documents, the United States Army contracted with Document and Packaging Broker Inc. (DOCUPAK) to administer the Guard Recruiting Assistance Program (G-RAP). Under G-RAP, members of the California National Guard served as Recruiting Assistants. If a Recruiting Assistant referred a potential Guard member to a recruiting office and that person ultimately enlisted, the Recruiting Assistant was eligible to receive monetary compensation disbursed by DOCUPAK. Huerta served in the California National Guard as a recruiter. In that position, he had access to names of recruits who had not been referred by any Recruiting Assistant. Huerta pleaded guilty to taking part in a scheme that caused DOCUPAK to issue compensation that was not earned by claiming that various enlistees had been referred by Recruiting Assistants when, in fact, they had not. This case is the product of an ongoing investigation by the Army Criminal Investigative Command Major Procurement Fraud Unit, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Michael G. Tierney is prosecuting the case. “As today’s guilty plea shows, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service and its law enforcement partners will continue to identify and investigate those individuals who seek to defraud the U.S. taxpayer,” said Special Agent In Charge Chris D. Hendrickson, Defense Criminal Investigative Service, Western Field Office. “Any individual, regardless of position, who attempts to prosper at the expense of the American taxpayer, will be brought to justice.” “The California National Guard has fully cooperated with the U.S. Attorney’s Office and the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command regarding these matters, and will continue to do so moving forward, as we expect any who contradict the California National Guard’s core values to be held accountable,” said Capt. Will Martin, Public Affairs Officer for the California Military Department. Huerta is scheduled to be sentenced by United States District Court Judge Lawrence J. O’Neill on December 7, 2015. Huerta faces a maximum statutory penalty of 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. The actual sentence, however, will be determined at the discretion of the court after consideration of any applicable statutory factors and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, which take into account a number of variables. Seven other National Guard members have been charged in six separate indictments for their roles in similar recruiting‑fraud scheme in Fresno and Sacramento. Brian Kaps, 40, of Chico, pleaded guilty on November 21, 2014, to one count of wire fraud; Sarah Nattress, 27, of Paradise, pleaded guilty on October 23, 2014, to one count of wire fraud, and Leonardo Pesta, 47, of Mountain View, pleaded guilty on July 27, 2015, to one count of wire fraud. The pending charges against the remaining four defendants are only allegations; they are presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption ALBANY, NY—Former New York State Assemblyman William Scarborough, 69, of Queens, New York, was sentenced today to 13 months in prison and two years of supervised release after being convicted of wire fraud and theft from a program receiving federal funds, announced United States Attorney Richard S. Hartunian of the Northern District of New York, New York State Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman, New York State Comptroller Thomas P. DiNapoli, and Special Agent in Charge Andrew W. Vale of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Albany Division. Senior United States District Judge Thomas J. McAvoy also ordered that Scarborough pay $54,355 in restitution to New York State and forfeit the same amount to the United States. Scarborough pleaded guilty on May 7, 2015 pursuant to a written plea agreement with the United States that required him to resign his position as a Member of the New York State Assembly. Scarborough’s federal convictions relate to his wrongful receipt of per diem payments from New York State. Assembly members receive per diem payments when they spend time in, and travel to and from, Albany. Scarborough falsely claimed, and received, per diem payments for days that he was not in Albany or in transit to or from the city. U.S. Attorney Richard S. Hartunian said: “It is a sad day when an elected official is sentenced to imprisonment, but it is a serious crime when such an official steals the state funds he is sworn to safeguard. Former Assemblyman Scarborough betrayed the people’s trust when he repeatedly lied about when he had been in Albany to line his pockets. We hope that this prosecution helps bring an end to abuses of the state legislature’s per diem system.” As a New York State Assemblyman, Scarborough was entitled to receive the following types of payments when he traveled to Albany for legislative business: an allowance for overnight stays in Albany (full per diem), which varied from $160 to $171 per day; an allowance for travel not requiring an overnight stay in Albany (partial per diem), which varied from $49 to $61 per day; and reimbursement for mileage incurred for travel between his home and Albany. To receive those payments, Scarborough was required to submit travel vouchers to the New York State Assembly Finance Department certifying his dates of travel to and from Albany; the number of miles he traveled to and from Albany; the purpose of his travel; the days he was in Albany; and his eligibility for payment for either full per diem or partial per diem on each of those days. He also had to certify that the claimed amount was “just, true and correct.” From January 2009 through December 2012, Scarborough submitted 174 fraudulent travel vouchers to the assembly’s Finance Department, causing the State of New York to pay him $54,355 that he was not entitled to receive. In the fraudulent vouchers, Scarborough falsely certified that he had been in Albany for legislative business on specific days when he had not been in Albany at all, had been in Albany for less time than he claimed on a voucher, or had not stayed in Albany overnight. On May 7, 2015, in a related case investigated by the New York State Attorney General’s Office and the New York State Comptroller’s Office, Scarborough pleaded guilty in Albany County Court to grand larceny in the fourth degree concerning his misuse of over $40,000 from his Friends of Bill Scarborough campaign account and is expected to be sentenced today to one year of jail time. “Today’s sentencing of Assemblymember Scarborough on public corruption charges sends a clear message that those who abuse the public trust will be held accountable,” said State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman. “Assemblymember Scarborough’s jail sentence resolves one unfortunate chapter in New York State government, but crystalizes the need for comprehensive reform to clean up corruption in our state.” “Public service is a commitment, not a means for self-enrichment,” said State Comptroller Thomas P. DiNapoli. “Mr. Scarborough betrayed his oath of office. This case serves as a reminder: we are on the job, we are working together, and we will hold you accountable. I thank U.S. Attorney Hartunian, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Attorney General Schneiderman for their hard work on this case.” “Today’s sentencing is the culmination of a vigorous and multi-agency investigation,” said Special Agent in Charge Andrew W. Vale. “No public official is exempt from law enforcement scrutiny; if they breach the public’s trust through stealing in the course of their official duties, they will be brought to justice.” The federal case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Albany Division, and was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Jeffrey C. Coffman. Prosecuting the state case is Assistant Attorney General Christopher Baynes of the Attorney General’s Public Integrity Bureau. The Public Integrity Bureau is led by Bureau Chief Daniel Cort and Deputy Bureau Chief Stacy Aronowitz. The state’s investigation was handled by Investigator Mark Spencer and Deputy Bureau Chief Antoine Karam of the Investigation Bureau. The Investigations Bureau is led by Dominick Zarrella. Forensic Auditor Jason Blair, Legal Analyst Sara Pogorzelski, and Supervising Investigator Edward Keegan provided additional assistance. The New York State Comptroller’s Division of Investigations conducted the investigation for Comptroller DiNapoli’s Office.
corruption KANSAS CITY, MO—Tammy Dickinson, United States Attorney for the Western District of Missouri, announced today that a former federal employee has been indicted by a federal grand jury for using stolen money order receipts in a fraud scheme to avoid paying his medical bills. Byron G. Gorman, 50, of St. Joseph, Mo., was charged in a six-count indictment returned under seal by a federal grand jury in Kansas City, Mo., on Thursday, Sept. 10, 2015. That indictment was unsealed and made public today upon Gorman’s arrest and initial court appearance. Gorman was employed as an information technology specialist for the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Office of Inspector General, assigned to the Heart of America Regional Computer Forensics Laboratory in Kansas City, Mo., an FBI-facilitated laboratory where he was being trained to become a computer forensic examiner. The federal indictment alleges that Gorman used stolen money order receipts—taken by Gorman as he participated in a criminal investigation—as fraudulent evidence in court, both to defend himself against a lawsuit against him by his creditors and in his own lawsuit against his creditors. The indictment also alleges that Gorman stole the identities of several persons by forging their signatures on documents he created to use as evidence in court. According to the indictment, Gorman was a defendant in a civil collection lawsuit in Buchanan County, Mo., in which a judgment had been entered against him and a garnishment of his wages had been ordered to recover monies owed on medical bills incurred at the Heartland Regional Medical Center in St. Joseph. On Sept. 28, 2012, Gorman’s creditors filed a second civil collection lawsuit against him in Buchanan County to recover monies owed on additional unpaid medical bills. On May 22, 2012, Gorman participated in the execution of a federal search warrant at the offices of a private business in Kansas City, Kan. Gorman was there to search for computer-related evidence. He allegedly found and took five blank U.S. Postal Service money order receipts belonging to the private business for the purpose of facilitating a scheme to defraud Heartland Regional Medical Center and related entities to whom he owed medical bills for services provided at Heartland Regional Medical Center. The federal indictment alleges that Gorman used the stolen money order receipts and other fraudulent documents created as evidence in his defense. Gorman allegedly claimed that he had submitted postal money orders to his creditors, but the payments had not posted. As evidence, he allegedly provided the five stolen money order receipts, which were filled out to make it appear that money orders had been made out to Heartland Regional Medical Center, as well as a number of forged letters displaying the names and purported signatures of postal employees. Gorman also used the stolen money order receipts and other fraudulent documents he created as evidence in a lawsuit he caused to be filed against his creditors, according to the indictment. Gorman allegedly placed the names and forged signatures of the actual persons onto letters purporting to be from the U.S. Postal Service and the U.S. Federal Trade Commission onto two letters and two certified mail receipts as part of his wire fraud scheme. Gorman is charged with one count of mail fraud, two counts of wire fraud and three counts of aggravated identity theft. The federal indictment also contains a forfeiture allegation, which would require Gorman to forfeit to the government any property derived from the proceeds of the alleged offenses, including $18,000. As an examiner in training, Gorman did not perform any computer forensic examinations unless under the supervision of a fully certified Heart of America Regional Computer Forensic Laboratory (HARCFL) examiner. Upon learning of the allegations regarding Gorman, the Heart of America Regional Computer Forensic Laboratory did a complete and thorough review of any cases which Gorman may have assisted in the examination of computer forensic evidence. No inconsistencies, errors or issues were noted with any evidence. The HARCFL is a fully accredited laboratory facility following a strict protocol for the examination of evidence and the training protocol for examiners in training. Dickinson cautioned that the charges contained in this indictment are simply accusations, and not evidence of guilt. Evidence supporting the charges must be presented to a federal trial jury, whose duty is to determine guilt or innocence. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney John E. Cowles. It was investigated by the FBI and the U.S. Postal Inspection Service.
corruption Christopher R. Thyer, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Arkansas, along with David T. Resch, Special Agent in Charge of the Little Rock Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and Arkansas State Police Colonel William J. Bryant announced today that Dumas Police Officer James Ivory Edgerson, age 37, of Dumas, has been charged by federal criminal complaint with drug conspiracy. Also charged were Kendrick Lamar Edgerson, age 43, of Little Rock; Gregory Lamont Charles, age 41, of Little Rock; Steven Sherrod Miles, age 42, of Dumas; Rodney Lariel Edgerson, age 36, of Little Rock; and Eli Haynes III, age 40, of Arlington, Texas. James Edgerson was arrested Wednesday night. The other five defendants listed in the complaint were arrested Thursday morning. All defendants except Haynes appeared before United States Magistrate Judge J. Thomas Ray on Thursday. Haynes, who was arrested in Texas, will be seen in Texas by a United States Magistrate Judge on Friday. The five Arkansas defendants were detained pending bond hearings to determine whether the defendants remain in federal custody until an Indictment is returned. The charge in the complaint must be presented to the federal Grand Jury for Indictment within 30 days. During the execution of three federal search warrants Thursday morning in connection with the arrests, agents seized approximately 28 ounces of powder cocaine, one ounce of crack cocaine, one pound of marijuana, five firearms including a suppressor, and $222,000 in cash. According to the complaint, James Ivory Edgerson (Edgerson) has been a sworn patrol officer with the Dumas Police Department for approximately 14 years. Between May and September 2015, Edgerson made several drug deliveries of marijuana, cocaine, and methamphetamine to confidential sources. Law enforcement also obtained a court-authorized wiretap on Edgerson’s phone during the conspiracy period. When Edgerson was arrested he was in a vehicle with approximately three ounces of powder cocaine and one ounce of crack cocaine. Agents executing a search warrant at his home also found approximately $16,000 cash, several firearms and an unregistered firearm suppressor. “It is extremely disheartening any time a member of law enforcement commits a crime and breaks the trust that the people of his community have placed in him or her,” Thyer said. “The citizens of the Eastern District of Arkansas deserve better, and deserve to know that their law enforcement members will honor their vow to protect and serve. When that vow—and that trust—is broken, my office will make sure those individuals are punished and answer for their crimes.” The complaint alleges that Kendrick Lamar Edgerson (Kendrick) was intercepted over Edgerson’s phone engaging in drug trafficking activity with Edgerson. After Kendrick participated in a delivery of nine ounces of cocaine on August 31, 2015, Kendrick fled from police during a traffic stop. As a result of that traffic stop, state authorities cited Kendrick for possession of cocaine with the purpose to distribute, possession of marijuana, and fleeing from a police officer. Also according to the complaint, on multiple occasions, Edgerson met with Gregory Lamont Charles (Charles) directly before and after controlled deliveries of cocaine, and Charles is believed to be a cocaine supplier. Agents executed a search warrant at Charles’s house Thursday morning and located approximately 25 ounces of cocaine, $206,000 cash, and a firearm. Edgerson provided Steven Sherrod Miles (Miles) with drugs to sell, and Miles split the profit from the sale of the drugs with Edgerson. Agents located one pound of marijuana at Miles’s home during the execution of a search warrant. In August 2015, Edgerson traveled to Arlington, Texas, to purchase nine ounces of methamphetamine from Eli Haynes III (Haynes). Upon returning to Arkansas, Edgerson sold this methamphetamine. The complaint also alleges that Rodney Lariel Edgerson (Rodney), who was intercepted on Edgerson’s phone, met with Edgerson on August 15, 2015, and sold him five to six pounds of marijuana. Rodney and Kendrick are brothers, and are also cousins of Edgerson. “Edgerson, a police officer with the Dumas Police Department, was arrested today on drug conspiracy charges,” Resch said. “Together with our partners, the United States Attorney’s Office, OCDETF, Arkansas State Police, Tri County Drug Task Force, ArkTrust Public Corruption Task Force, and Jefferson County Sheriff’s Office and with the cooperation of the Dumas Police Department, we will aggressively investigate these charges.” The maximum potential penalty for a violation of Title 21, United States Code, Section 846 (drug conspiracy) is up to life imprisonment, up to life supervised release, and a fine of up to $10,000,000. The investigation was part of Organized Crime and Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF) Operation Blue Dream. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Arkansas State Police, Jefferson County Sheriff’s Office, and Tri County Drug Task Force. It is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Edward Walker and Julie Peters. The charges stemmed from an investigation by the FBI’s ArkTrust Public Corruption Task Force. The ArkTrust Public Corruption Task Force is comprised of FBI Agents, and Task Force Officers from the Arkansas State Police Department, Pulaski County Sheriff’s Office, and the Little Rock Police Department. If you think you see public corruption contact the public corruption hotline at (501) 221-8200. A complaint contains only allegations. The defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption United States Attorney Andrew M. Luger today announced the indictment of WILLIAM JAMES DAVIS, 64, and JORDAN JAMES DAVIS, 34, for conspiring to steal funds from Community Action of Minneapolis (CAM) for the use of WILLIAM and JORDAN DAVIS. At all times relevant, WILLIAM DAVIS was the CEO of CAM, a non-profit organization created to provide services to low-income residents of Minneapolis and focusing on the elimination of poverty. CAM provided services including weatherization of homes, energy assistance, nutrition assistance and services for children and families. JORDAN DAVIS is expected to make an initial appearance tomorrow in U.S. District Court in St. Paul, Minn. “This indictment charges a former non-profit leader and a police officer with stealing funds intended to keep Minnesotans warm during the winter,” said U.S. Attorney Luger. “This office will prosecute aggressively those who abuse needed public resources for personal gain.” “Allegations into the misuse of hard-earned taxpayer money for personal gain are taken very seriously by the FBI and our law enforcement partners,” said FBI Special Agent in Charge for the Minneapolis Division Richard T. Thornton. “We will continue to pursue and address these cases with the highest investigative priority.” According to the indictment and documents filed in court, CAM’s primary funding sources consisted of federal grants administered by the Minnesota Department of Commerce and Minnesota Department of Human Services. CAM also received funding from CenterPoint Energy (CenterPoint) and Xcel Energy (Xcel) in exchange for providing certain conservation and weatherization services to qualifying homeowners. According to the indictment and documents filed in court, WILLIAM DAVIS was issued a credit card as CEO of CAM, for which CAM paid the balance due each month. W. DAVIS was required to use his corporate card “for agency authorized activities only.” As part of his scheme to defraud CAM, W. DAVIS concealed his diversion of CAM funds to his personal use by charging the majority of his CAM-paid personal expenses to a slush fund on CAM’s books. The slush fund was created using excess funds provided by CenterPoint and Xcel in exchange for CAM’s agreement to provide certain conservation and weatherization services to qualifying homeowners. If CAM could provide the services for less than the amounts provided by CenterPoint and Xcel, CAM was allowed to keep the difference for other CAM-related activities. CAM carried these funds on its books in a slush fund not subject to the same oversight as CAM’s state and federal grant proceeds. W. DAVIS could therefore instruct CAM’s fiscal staff to charge personal expenses to this slush fund with less risk of detection. According to the indictment and documents filed in court, W. DAVIS used intimidation and retaliation to prevent CAM staff from informing anyone, including CAM’s Board of Directors, that he was using his position as CAM’s CEO to divert CAM funds to his personal use and that of his family and friends. For example, W. DAVIS issued written reprimands to employees, prohibited employees from communicating with state agencies and CAM’s financial auditors, threatened employees with suspension and termination, and ordered one CAM employee to look up the definitions of the words “insubordination” and “loyalty” after the employee contradicted W. DAVIS in front of other employees. According to the indictment and documents filed in court, between March 2007 and October 2014, at least $250,000 in CAM funds intended to be used to provide services to low-income residents of Minneapolis were instead diverted to W. DAVIS’ personal use and the use of his family and friends, including JORDAN DAVIS. As part of the scheme, W. DAVIS caused CAM funds to be used for personal expenses, including airline tickets, hotel stays, rental cars and a Caribbean cruise. In total, between January 2009 and October 2014, W. DAVIS caused $77,000 of CAM funds to be used for personal travel expenses for himself and his friends and family members. According to the indictment and documents filed in court, W. DAVIS used CAM funds to pay for his personal vehicle, a 2011 Chrysler 300. In May 2011, W. DAVIS traded in a 2005 Chrysler 300 owned by CAM. He then used the $10,079.53 in proceeds from the trade-in of the CAM vehicle toward the purchase of the 2011 Chrysler 300 for himself. W. DAVIS used CAM funds to pay the remaining $36,430 balance of the purchase price of the 2011 Chrysler 300. Nearly four months later, W. DAVIS e-mailed three members of the CAM Board of Directors to authorize a personal loan from CAM for the purchase of the vehicle. He did not disclose that he had already purchased the vehicle using CAM funds, nor did he disclose that he had applied the trade-in value of the CAM-owned 2005 Chrysler 300 toward the purchase of the new vehicle. According to the indictment and documents filed in court, W. DAVIS also used CAM funds to pay JORDAN DAVIS for a no-show job at a Ben & Jerry’s ice cream shop operated by CAM. CAM operated a Ben & Jerry’s PartnerShop near the University of Minnesota campus in Minneapolis. Ben & Jerry’s waived its standard franchise fees so that CAM could use the store to offer job and entrepreneurial training to underprivileged youth facing barriers to employment. According to the indictment and documents filed in court, between 2002 and October 2006, WILLIAM DAVIS’s son JORDAN DAVIS, worked as the manager of the Ben & Jerry’s PartnerShop. In October 2006, J. DAVIS obtained employment with the Minneapolis Police Department, and thereafter stopped working at the Ben & Jerry’s. CAM hired a new manager for the store a few months later. According to the indictment and documents filed in court, W. DAVIS instructed CAM’s fiscal staff to continue issuing J. DAVIS the full paycheck he had been receiving for managing the ice cream shop. W. DAVIS concealed this from CAM’s Board of Directors. From at least March 2007 until January 2011, J. DAVIS continued to receive his full paycheck, $1,320 biweekly, for his work at the Ben & Jerry’s, even though he was doing no work for the ice cream shop. J. DAVIS endorsed and deposited the paychecks every two weeks. In total, J. DAVIS endorsed and deposited at least 105 paychecks for his no-show job. According to the indictment and documents filed in court, during the nearly four years that J. DAVIS was being paid for his no-show job, CAM’s fiscal staff repeatedly advised W. DAVIS to stop the payments, but W. DAVIS refused. On December 20, 2010, W. DAVIS sent an e-mail to CAM’s CFO in which W. DAVIS agreed that J. DAVIS’s “last day on payroll for Ben & Jerry’s is Dec. 31st.” W. DAVIS instructed CAM’s CFO to issue J. DAVIS his ordinary payroll check on December 31st, along with a “bonus check for $6,000.” As a result of W. DAVIS and J. DAVIS’s fraud scheme, CAM paid J. DAVIS more than $140,000 for a job he did not perform. In April 2011, CAM closed the Ben & Jerry’s PartnerShop because CAM could no longer afford the rent for the store, and CAM terminated its youth job skills training program. According to the indictment and documents filed in court, in October 2013, the Minnesota Department of Human Services (DHS) began an audit intended to determine whether CAM was using the federal and state grant funds that it received through DHS in accordance with the applicable contracts. DHS personnel sought documents and information about the purposes of various CAM expenditures. Throughout the first several months of 2014, W. DAVIS resisted DHS’s requests for information. According to the indictment and documents filed in court, in May 2014, DHS provided a draft audit report to W. DAVIS, as well as to CAM’s CFO and the Chair of CAM’s Board of Directors. The draft audit indicated unallowable travel expenses for W. DAVIS had been charged to the grants. W. DAVIS subsequently sent correspondence containing false material representations about his personal travel. On June 3, 2014, W. DAVIS attended a meeting with DHS personnel to discuss the report’s findings. Two days later, W. DAVIS flew to Phoenix, Ariz., to visit his girlfriend using an airline ticket he caused to be purchased with CAM funds. On October 13, 2014, W. DAVIS was suspended from his position as CEO without pay. This case is the result of an investigation conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation, United States Department of Health and Human Services Office of the Inspector General and the United States Department of Energy Office of the Inspector General. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Kimberly A. Svendsen. Defendant Information: WILLIAM JAMES DAVIS, 64 Brooklyn Park, Minn. Charges: Conspiracy to commit theft concerning programs receiving federal funds, one count Mail fraud, 10 counts Wire fraud, one count Theft concerning programs receiving federal funds, four counts JORDAN JAMES DAVIS, 34 Otsego, Minn. Charges: Conspiracy to commit theft concerning programs receiving federal funds, one count Mail fraud, five counts
corruption CHICAGO—A former police officer in the Cook County Sheriff’s Department pleaded guilty in federal court today to robbing drug dealers of cocaine, marijuana and contraband cigarettes during home invasions and while on duty. In a written plea agreement, ROBERT VAUGHAN admitted that he robbed eight drug dealers from 2011 to 2013, earning a total profit of $300,000. Vaughan said he conducted the robberies with two other law enforcement officers, and the trio shared in the profits, according to the plea agreement. The robberies were carried out in Chicago, Cicero, Plainfield, Lyons, Melrose Park and Forest Park. Vaughan, 44, of Frankfort, pleaded guilty to one count of robbery. He faces a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison, plus a maximum fine of $250,000 or twice the gross gain or gross loss resulting from the offense, whichever is greater. U.S. District Judge Samuel Der-Yeghiayan scheduled a sentencing hearing for February 3, 2016, at 10:00 a.m. According to the plea agreement, Vaughan was assigned to the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) team, a joint federal, state, and local initiative to combat the trafficking of illegal narcotics. Vaughan admitted using his position as a police officer to orchestrate deals with drug traffickers for marijuana, cocaine and contraband cigarettes. Immediately after the transactions, Vaughan would arrest and handcuff the individuals—but then keep the narcotics for himself and release the dealers without charges. Vaughan later sold the narcotics to other dealers in exchange for cash. Vaughan also admitted robbing individuals and homes of marijuana based on information he had learned from confidential informants. He was arrested on Nov. 3, 2014, after he and another law enforcement officer robbed 70 pounds of marijuana from an individual whom they believed was a drug courier. In reality, the individual was an undercover federal agent, according to the plea agreement. The guilty plea was announced by Zachary T. Fardon, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois; and John A. Brown, Acting Special Agent-in-Charge of the Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The government is represented by Assistant United States Attorney Sunil Harjani.
corruption OCALA, FL—United States Attorney A. Lee Bentley, III announces that Robert Lawrence Brown (32, Clermont) has pleaded guilty to accepting a bribe as a public official. He faces a maximum penalty of 15 years in federal prison. A sentencing date has not yet been set. According to the plea agreement, beginning in January 2015, Brown used his position as a Correctional Officer at the Coleman Federal Correctional Complex to smuggle contraband to inmates in exchange for monetary payments. On June 18, 2015, federal agents monitored a meeting between Brown and a cooperating witness. During that meeting, Brown accepted $2,600 for items that he had already smuggled into the prison. When confronted by investigators, Brown admitted that he had illegally negotiated $7,100 in cash payments in return for smuggling cellphones, prescription pills, tobacco, and other items to federal inmates. This case was investigated by the Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Robert E. Bodnar, Jr.
corruption NEWARK, NJ—A New Jersey Transit employee was sentenced today to 36 months in prison for obtaining money from New Jersey Transit vendors to use his official authority and influence to help them get work with New Jersey Transit, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. William Talerico, 56, of Beachwood, New Jersey, previously pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge William H. Walls to an information charging one count of affecting commerce by extortion under color of official right. Judge Walls imposed the sentence today in Newark federal court. According to documents in this case and statements made in court: From at least around January 2006 to April 2012, Talerico served as a supervisor of stations responsible for overseeing the maintenance and custodial functions for certain New Jersey Transit facilities, including stations on New Jersey Transit’s North Jersey Coast Line and Northeast Corridor. During this time period, Talerico agreed to accept and accepted corrupt payments in cash from numerous New Jersey Transit vendors. In exchange, Talerico agreed to, and did, exercise official authority and influence to assist the New Jersey Transit vendors with securing work from New Jersey Transit. In addition, Talerico acted as an intermediary through which corrupt payments were given to a New Jersey Transit supervisor. Talerico received more than $70,000, for himself and the supervisor, in corrupt payments of cash and other items of value from these New Jersey Transit vendors. In addition to the prison term, Judge Walls sentenced Talerico to three years of supervised release and ordered him to pay $54,600 in restitution. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Richard M. Frankel; and the N.J. State Police, under the direction of Col. Joseph R. Fuentes, for their work in the investigation leading to today’s sentencing. He also thanked the N.J. Attorney General’s Office, under the direction of Acting Attorney General John Hoffman and Elie Honig, Director of the N.J. Division of Criminal Justice, for their work in this investigation. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Mark McCarren of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division in Newark, and Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael A. Monahan, the Chief of the Financial and Computer Crimes Bureau, Division of Criminal Justice, in the N.J. Attorney General’s Office.
corruption GAINESVILLE, GA—David M. Treadwell and Austin Herring have been sentenced in separate cases arising from their former employment with the Hall County, Georgia, Sheriff’s Office. Treadwell is a former deputy sheriff who accepted a bribe to tip off a person he believed was a drug dealer if the person came under investigation by Hall County law enforcement. Herring, a former jailer at the Hall County Detention Center, smuggled what he believed to be cocaine into the jail and delivered it to an inmate. “These men committed serious breaches of public trust,” said U.S. Attorney John Horn. “Herring and Treadwell placed self-interest above their sworn duty to serve and protect the citizens of Hall County. For just a few dollars they were willing to trade in their freedom and their careers in law enforcement.” “Both of these cases illustrate a disheartening departure from integrity and dedication to service that is expected of our law enforcement officers. Today’s sentencing in federal court illustrates the painful but necessary consequences for that departure,” said J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office. According to U.S. Attorney Horn, the charges, and other information presented in court: In late 2014, while Treadwell was employed as a deputy sheriff with the Hall County Sheriff’s Office, he accepted $200 or $300 on five occasions from a person he believed was a drug dealer. In exchange for the money, Treadwell agreed to alert the drug dealer if it was learned that the drug dealer was under investigation in Hall County. In February 2015, while Herring was employed as a jailer with the Hall County Sheriff’s Office, he was paid $500 on two occasions to take packages he was told contained cocaine to an inmate inside the jail. On each occasion, Herring took the package to the inmate who was cooperating with the investigation. The inmate then turned the package over to investigators. Herring did not open or tamper with either package, but on each occasion he was specifically told by the person who gave it to him that the package contained cocaine from Mexico. In actuality, neither package contained a controlled substance. Treadwell and Herring were fired by the Hall County Sheriff’s Office immediately upon their respective arrests. David M. Treadwell, 33, of Gainesville, Georgia, was sentenced to one year and one day in prison to be followed by two years of supervised release, and a $1,000 fine. Treadwell was convicted on these charges on May 12, 2015, after he pleaded guilty. Austin Herring, 19, of Murrayville, Georgia, was sentenced to six months in prison to be followed by three years of supervised release. As a special condition of supervised release, he must serve the first six months on home confinement with electronic monitoring. Herring was convicted on these charges on May 12, 2015, after he pleaded guilty. Both cases were investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation with assistance from the North Georgia Major Offenders Task Force, which includes deputy sheriffs from the Hall County Sheriff’s Office. Assistant U.S. Attorney William L. McKinnon, Jr. prosecuted both cases.
corruption SAVANNAH, GA—Former ATF Task Force Officer Daryle McCormick has been arraigned on a charge that he fraudulently claimed to have worked approximately 800 hours of overtime resulting in more than $19,500 in additional wages. “As a federal officer, McCormick was expected—at the very least—to obey the laws that he swore to enforce,” said U.S. Attorney John Horn. “The indictment alleges McCormick violated the law and the trust placed in him by bilking the government out of almost $20,000 in overtime for hours he never worked.” “The integrity of law enforcement is just as much, if not more, at the heart of these allegations as the monetary loss amounts are. The allegations contained in these charges are serious and the government’s response to those allegations reflects it,” said J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office. “The DOJ OIG appreciates the efforts of the U.S. Attorney’s Office and the FBI to protect taxpayer funds and ensure that federal task force officers are held to the same high standards as any federal employee,” said Special Agent in Charge Robert Bourbon of the DOJ OIG’s Miami Field Office. According to U.S. Attorney Horn, the charges, and other information presented in court: From approximately November 25, 1996, to May 7, 2015, Daryle McCormick served as a police officer with Savannah-Chatham Metropolitan Police Department headquartered in Savannah, Georgia. From that position, McCormick became a federally‑deputized Task Force Officer with the U.S. Department of Justice’s Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (“ATF”). McCormick served as a Task Force Officer with the ATF from approximately September 6, 2005 to June 17, 2014. As an ATF Task Force Officer, McCormick was eligible to receive overtime pay for working more than eight hours per day. To be paid, McCormick was required to submit an overtime pay request to the ATF, listing the dates worked, the number of hours worked, and the general subject matter of the work. When submitting requests to be paid for overtime hours purportedly worked, McCormick made the following certification: “I certify that the above time was duly earned. I understand that my misstatement concerning the aforementioned time may be cause for dismissal.” Ultimately, when approved, payments for McCormick’s fraudulently claimed overtime came from the U.S. Department of Justice. From October 2010 to September 2013, McCormick allegedly engaged in a scheme to unlawfully commit overtime fraud by repeatedly submitting overtime payment requests to the ATF for hours that he never worked. For example: the indictment alleges that: (1) McCormick claimed to work overtime on days when he had worked a full day with the ATF and had also worked up to an additional four hours at a second job for a local church; (2) McCormick claimed to have worked overtime conducting surveillance or undercover operations, even though no ATF operations occurred on those dates; and (3) McCormick claimed to have worked overtime conducting surveillance or undercover operations; however, McCormick never drafted reports summarizing the alleged ATF operations. According to the indictment, from approximately October 18, 2010 to September 28, 2013, McCormick falsely claimed to have worked almost 800 hours in overtime when in fact, he had not worked those overtime hours. Based on those false overtime requests, the Department of Justice paid McCormick more than $19,500 for overtime hours that McCormick never worked. On August 31, 2015, Daryle McCormick, 47, of Pooler, Georgia, was charged via criminal information with Theft of Government Money. Members of the public are reminded that the information only contains charges. The defendant is presumed innocent of the charges and it will be the government’s burden to prove the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt at trial. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the U.S. Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General. Special Assistant U.S Attorney Jeffrey W. Davis is prosecuting the case.
corruption Two former City of Miami Public Service Aides (PSA), three tow truck drivers, and the former owner of a tow company were sentenced by U.S. District Court Judge Marcia Cooke today for their participation in a kickback/bribery scheme. In that scheme, four tow truck drivers paid PSAs thousands of dollars in a series of bribes over a multi-year period. In exchange for the payments, the PSAs provided the tow truck drivers accident location information and other confidential information from their police department computers. Wifredo A. Ferrer, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, FBI, Miami Field Office, and Rodolfo Llanes, Chief, City of Miami Police Department (MPD), made the announcement. City of Miami PSA Aristides Paulino, 31, City of Miami PSA Keri Dixon, 27, Jesus Tello, 29, Ronald Alfaro, 27, Reinaldo Martin Cruz, 30, and Robert Muriedas, 43, all of Miami, previously pled guilty to one count of conspiring to deprive the public of honest services through the use of interstate wires and conspiring to participate in a bribery scheme as/with a City of Miami Police Department employee in connection with a series of transactions valued at $5,000 or more in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371. Robert Muriedas, the former owner of a tow truck company involved in the scheme, received a sentence of 34 months’ imprisonment. PSA Paulino and PSA Dixon were each sentenced to 30 and 29 months, respectively. The tow trucks’ operators, Tello, Alfaro, and Martin Cruz were each sentenced to 32, 29, and 29 months of imprisonment, respectively. All of the defendants are also required to serve one year supervised release, upon their release from prison. Michael Perez, 22, of Miami, has been scheduled for sentencing at 11:00 a.m. on October 21, 2015. According to the facts set forth in court documents, the City of Miami has established a wrecker operator system for the purpose of protecting drivers and preventing corruption. For example, when a car is disabled because of an accident, the driver must call a tow company himself or herself, have his or her insurance company arrange a tow, or ask the responding officer or PSA to arrange a tow. If an officer or PSA is asked to arrange the tow, almost every police department, including MPD, has strict regulations on how that tow referral must be made. As further alleged, the information provided by PSAs Paulino and Dixon to tow truck operators Tello, Martin Cruz, Alfaro and Perez, and other unnamed co-conspirators, enabled the tow truck operators to arrive first at accident scenes, often times even before the arrival of law enforcement. Once there, the tow truck operators would illegally solicit stranded accident victims for towing and steer those victims to a particular collision repair business. According to the factual proffers in the court file, Paulino admitted taking more than $35,000 worth of bribes between 2011 and 2014, and Dixon admitted receiving more than $20,000 in bribes between 2012 and 2014. Court documents stated that at the times when PSAs Paulino and Dixon were present at the accident locations, Paulino and Dixon actively assisted the tow truck operators in soliciting business from the stranded individuals. When the damaged vehicles were towed, they were delivered to a particular collision repair business which would pay a kickback to the tow truck operators, the PSAs, and the owner of the tow truck. Payment of these kickbacks was prohibited by the tow truck company’s contract with the City of Miami and the City of Miami also lost revenue because each tow was not properly logged as a rotational tow. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI Miami Area Corruption Task Force and the Internal Affairs Section of MPD. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Anthony Lacosta. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Southern District of Florida at www.flsd.uscourts.gov or on http://pacer.flsd.uscourts.gov.
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, announced that ANDREW ROSS, 58, of New Haven, waived his right to indictment and pleaded guilty today before U.S. District Judge Michael P. Shea in Hartford to paying nearly $350,000 in bribes to the former executive director of the West Haven Housing Authority in exchange for government contracts and business. According to court documents and statements made in court, Michael Siwek was the executive director of the West Haven Housing Authority (“WHHA”), an agency that received federal funding. As part of his duties, Siwek had substantial discretion over awarding WHHA business and contracts. Siwek also owned and controlled Four Star Development Company, LLC (“Four Star”). Between January 2007 and February 2012, ROSS, who controlled business entities that received WHHA business and contracts for financial and consulting services, made approximately $349,500 in corrupt payments to Siwek and Four Star. In total, Siwek received approximately $1.5 million in bribes from individuals who received business with the WHHA and the entities that the WHHA controlled. ROSS pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit bribery in connection with a program receiving federal funds, which carries a maximum term of imprisonment of five years. Judge Shea scheduled sentencing for January 29, 2015. On September 4, 2014, Siwek pleaded guilty to related charges. He awaits sentencing. U.S. Attorney Daly stated that the investigation is ongoing. This matter is being investigated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development—Office of Inspector General, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Sarah Karwan. Citizens are encouraged to report corruption to the Connecticut Public Corruption Task Force by calling 203-238-0505.
corruption NEWARK, NJ—The former treasurer of the North Brunswick Volunteer Fire Department No. 3 (“NBVFD”) today admitted embezzling at least $89,000, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Craig J. Snediker, 40, of Monroe Township, New Jersey, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Freda L. Wolfson in Trenton federal court to an information charging him with one count of wire fraud. According to documents filed in this case and statements made is court: As NBVFD’s treasurer, Snediker had the authority to deposit and withdraw money from NBVFD’s bank account, which held public funds and private donations. Snediker admitted that from March 25, 2014 through May 19, 2015, he used ATM machines at banks in Middlesex County, New Jersey, to access the funds for his personal expenses. He later concealed his actions by misrepresenting the account balance to the Township of North Brunswick. Overall, Snediker admitted that he withdrew between $89,000 and $92,986 without NBVFD’s authorization. The wire fraud charge to which Snediker pleaded guilty carries a maximum potential penalty of 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine, or twice the gross gain or loss from the offense. Sentencing is scheduled for Dec. 15, 2015. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Richard M. Frankel, with the investigation leading to today’s plea. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney José R. Almonte of the U.S. Attorney’s Office’s Special Prosecutions Division.
corruption TAMPA, FL—U.S. District Judge Susan C. Bucklew today sentenced Wenston DeSue (44, Bradenton) to 12 months and 1 day in federal prison for theft of federal funds. As part of his sentence, the Court entered a forfeiture money judgment in the amount of $276,300.03, the proceeds of DeSue’s theft, and also ordered him to pay the same amount in restitution to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”). DeSue pleaded guilty on May 28, 2015. According to court documents, from January 1, 2006, until September 19, 2013, DeSue was employed as the Executive Director of the Bradenton Housing Authority (“BHA”), a local housing authority that receives federal funds from HUD. An investigation by the HUD—Office of Inspector General and the Federal Bureau of Investigation revealed that between September 2010 and September 2013, DeSue was significantly absent from the BHA on a routine basis, engaged in non-BHA activities during work hours, and failed to take annual or sick leave for those absences. Despite being absent from the BHA much of the time, he accepted his regular salary. In total, DeSue stole and knowingly converted to his own use $276,300.03 from the BHA in salary, bonuses, and cash-outs of unused leave. In addition, DeSue spent personal time with BHA Project Director, Stephany West, with whom he was romantically involved. On numerous occasions, the two spent personal time together during the workday when they should have been working or on some form of leave. West previously pleaded guilty to theft of federal funds and has a sentencing hearing set for September 9, 2015. In total, West stole and knowingly converted to her own use $104,550.75 from the BHA in salary, bonuses, and cash-outs of unused leave. This case was investigated by the Office of Inspector General for the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, and the Bradenton Police Department. It was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Jennifer L. Peresie and Simon A. Gaugush.
corruption OCALA, FL—United States Attorney A. Lee Bentley, III announces the arrest of Rashan L. Gibson (28, Clermont) on a criminal complaint charging him with four counts of making false statements to federal investigators. He faces up to five years in federal prison for each offense. Gibson was released on a $25,000 bond pending resolution of the matter. According to court documents, federal investigators were contacted by an inmate at the Coleman Federal Correctional Complex in Sumter County who claimed that Gibson, a federal corrections officer, had smuggled cigarettes into the facility in exchange for a $500 bribe. Investigators subsequently monitored an audio and video-recorded meeting between Gibson and the inmate in May 2015. During that meeting, Gibson and the inmate discussed the previous transaction, as well as a future $5,000 payment for other contraband that Gibson would smuggle into the prison. The inmate also provided Gibson with the name of a contact who could deliver the payment to him. On August 6, 2015, investigators confronted Gibson about the smuggling operation. During the meeting, Gibson denied smuggling contraband into the prison. He also claimed that that he had never met with the inmate, had never discussed a bribery payment, and had never received the name of a person who would pay him money on the inmate’s behalf. Based upon the evidence obtained during the investigation, all of these statements were false. A criminal complaint is merely an allegation that a defendant has committed one or more violations of federal criminal law, and every defendant is presumed innocent unless, and until, proven guilty. This case is being investigated by the Department of Justice—Office of the Inspector General, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Robert E. Bodnar, Jr.
corruption CLARKSBURG, VA—A federal grand jury returned a racketeering indictment today against the former director of the West Virginia Division of Highway’s Equipment Division, United States Attorney William J. Ihlenfeld, II, announced. Robert Glen Andrew, II, of Bridgeport, West Virginia, has been charged in a 29-count indictment which alleges violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. Andrew is alleged to have used his position to create a culture of corruption within the Division of Highways, and to have used the Division of Highways as a vehicle to engage in racketeering activity. Andrew allegedly abused his position of trust in order to use state resources, including employees and equipment, to engage in political activity on state time. He is also alleged to have engaged in bid-rigging by creating non-competitive bid specifications that favored particular vendors and that did not seek to obtain the best value for the State of West Virginia. Andrew is also alleged to have violated, and to have directed others to violate, the statutes and regulations which govern the use and disposition of federal excess property. Andrew is also accused of having tampered with a witness and with documents. Ohio corporation Mo-Trim, Inc., a business engaged in the building of large commercial mowers, was named in the indictment along with Andrew. Mo-Trim is a vendor which held a mower parts contract with the Division of Highways and which is alleged to have been involved in the preparation of non-competitive bid specifications which did not seek to obtain the best value for the State of West Virginia but instead specifically benefitted Mo-Trim. Both Andrew and Mo-Trim, Inc. are charged with seven counts of “Wire Fraud,” and one count of “Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act Conspiracy.” Andrew, age 77, is further charged with eight counts of “Mail Fraud,” seven counts of “Causing Theft of Government Property,” four counts of “Wire Fraud,” one count of “Document Tampering,” and one count of “Witness Tampering.” Assistant U.S. Attorneys Jarod Douglas and Sarah Montoro, along with Special Assistant U.S. Attorney John Parr, are prosecuting the case on behalf of the government. The West Virginia State Police, the West Virginia Commission on Special Investigations, the General Services Administration Office of Inspector General, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation conducted the inquiry. An indictment is merely an accusation. A defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption WASHINGTON—A former U.S. Secret Service special agent pleaded guilty today to money laundering and obstruction of justice in connection with his theft of digital currency during the federal investigation of Silk Road, an online marketplace used to facilitate the purchase and sale of illegal drugs and other contraband. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag of the Northern District of California, Chief Richard Weber of the IRS-Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI), Special Agent in Charge David J. Johnson of the FBI’s San Francisco Division, Special Agent in Charge Michael P. Tompkins of the Justice Department’s Office of the Inspector General’s Washington, D.C. Field Office, and Special Agent in Charge Lori Hazenstab of the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of the Inspector General in Washington D.C. made the announcement. Shaun W. Bridges, 32, of Laurel, Maryland, had been a special agent with the U.S. Secret Service for approximately six years in the Baltimore Field Office and was assigned to the Electronic Crimes Task Force. He pleaded guilty before the U.S. District Judge Richard Seeborg of the Northern District of California and a sentencing hearing is scheduled for Dec. 7, 2015. “There is a bright line between enforcing the law and breaking it,” said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. “Law enforcement officers who cross that line not only harm their immediate victims but also betray the public trust. This case shows we will act quickly to hold wrongdoers accountable, no matter who they are.” “Mr. Bridges has now admitted that he brazenly stole $820,000 worth of digital currency while working as a U.S. Secret Service special agent, a move that completely violated the public’s trust,” said U.S. Attorney Haag. “We depend on those in federal law enforcement having the highest integrity and unshakeable honor, and Mr. Bridges has demonstrated that he utterly lacks those qualities. We appreciate the hard work of our federal partners that went into bringing Mr. Bridges to justice.” “Through a series of complex transactions, the defendant stole bitcoins worth hundreds of thousands of dollars,” said Chief Weber. “This case is an excellent example of the financial expertise of our special agents. Through the analysis of both the block chain and data from the Silk Road servers, we were able to trace the flow of funds, which eventually led to the defendant.” Between 2012 and 2014, Bridges was assigned to the Baltimore Silk Road Task Force, a multi-agency group investigating illegal activity on Silk Road. Bridges’ responsibilities included, among other things, conducting forensic computer investigations in an effort to locate, identify and prosecute targets, including Ross Ulbricht, aka Dread Pirate Roberts, who ran Silk Road. According to his plea agreement, Bridges admitted that in January 2013 he used an administrator account on the Silk Road website that belonged to another individual to fraudulently obtain access to that website, reset passwords of various accounts and to move bitcoin from those accounts into a bitcoin “wallet” that Bridges controlled. Bridges admitted that he moved and stole approximately 20,000 bitcoin, which at that time was worth approximately $350,000. Bridges admitted that he moved the stolen bitcoin into an account at Mt. Gox, an online digital currency exchange based in Japan. According to his admissions, he liquidated the bitcoin into $820,000 of U.S. currency between March and May 2013, and had the funds transferred to personal investment accounts in the United States. Bridges’ plea agreement also established that he obstructed the Baltimore federal grand jury’s investigations of Silk Road and Ulbricht in a number of ways, including by impeding the ability of the investigation to fully utilize a cooperator’s access to Silk Road. In addition, Bridges admitted that he made multiple false and misleading statements to investigators in connection with the San Francisco federal grand jury’s investigation into his own illegal acts, and that he encouraged another government employee to lie to investigators. Bridges is one of two federal agents to plead guilty in connection with illegal activity during the investigation of Silk Road. Carl M. Force, 46, of Baltimore, was a special agent with the Drug Enforcement Administration and was also assigned to the Baltimore Silk Road Task Force. On July 1, 2015, Force pleaded guilty to a three-count information charging him with money laundering related to his theft of over $700,000 in digital currency while acting as an undercover agent on the Task Force. Force is scheduled to be sentenced by Judge Seeborg on Oct. 19, 2015. The case was investigated by the FBI’s San Francisco Division, the IRS-CI’s San Francisco Division, the Justice Department’s Office of the Inspector General and the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of the Inspector General in Washington, D.C. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Kathryn Haun and William Frentzen of the Northern District of California and Trial Attorney Richard B. Evans of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section, with assistance from Assistant U.S. Attorney Arvon Perteet.
corruption HARRISBURG—The United States Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania announced today that the former Director of Marketing and Merchandising for the Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board (PA-LCB) has been charged with a scheme to defraud the state, its citizens and the PA-LCB of their right to his honest services as a public official through bribes, kick-backs and concealing information. According to United States Attorney Peter Smith, James H. Short, Jr., age 50, of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, is charged with Honest Services Mail Fraud in a Criminal Information filed today in the United States District Court in Harrisburg. Short served as the Director of Marketing and Merchandising from approximately 2003 to 2012 and supervised the process through which alcoholic beverages are selected and acquired for sale in Pennsylvania’s state-run liquor stores. With over $1 billion in annual revenue, the PA-LCB is one of the largest purchasers of alcohol in the world. The charge is based upon Short’s alleged 10 years (2002 to 2012) of receiving benefits from a distributor and a manufacturer of alcoholic beverages sold in Pennsylvania’s stores. These benefits included all-expense paid golf trips, cash, gift cards, meals, and other benefits. As Director of Marketing and Merchandising for the PA-LCB, Short supervised the process of recommending to the PA-LCB which new products should be sold and which products should no longer be sold in Pennsylvania’s 500 state-run liquor stores. Short has been charged with accepting things of value from the companies with the intent to be influenced in decisions he made to recommend new products and remove others from Pennsylvania liquor stores while failing to disclose the receipt of the items in annual financial reports he was required to submit to the State Ethics Commission as a public official. The Information describes two alleged examples of all-expense paid trips to Florida. In February 2010, Short is alleged to have been taken by private jet on an all-expense paid golf outing to Bonita Bay, Florida with the purpose of influencing his decision to list a particular product for sale. This trip, as well as a similar trip in December 2011, were part of an ongoing stream of benefits the vendor and manufacturer provided to Short to influence his decisions. The specific mailing in the charge is correspondence Short allegedly caused to be sent to company A in February 2012 notifying the company of a PA-LCB decision approving the listing of the company’s products. No date has been scheduled yet for entry of Short’s guilty plea. Together with the Criminal Information, the government also filed a plea agreement with Short, which is subject to the approval of the court, and a joint statement of facts concerning the offense. The case is part of a continuing investigation by the Harrisburg Office of the FBI and is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Michael A. Consiglio. The case initially was brought by the Pennsylvania Ethics Commission which found that Short violated the Pennsylvania Ethics act when he accepted certain things of value charged in the present federal case. Indictments and Criminal Informations are only allegations. All persons charged are presumed to be innocent unless and until found guilty in court. A sentence following a finding of guilt is imposed by the Judge after consideration of the applicable federal sentencing statutes and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines. The maximum penalty for the offense is 20 years of imprisonment, a term of supervised release following imprisonment, and a fine. Under the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, the Judge is also required to consider and weigh a number of factors, including the nature, circumstances and seriousness of the offense; the history and characteristics of the defendant; and the need to punish the defendant, protect the public and provide for the defendant’s educational, vocational and medical needs. For these reasons, the statutory maximum penalty for the offense is not an accurate indicator of the potential sentence for a specific defendant.
corruption A Russian official residing in Maryland pleaded guilty today to conspiracy to commit money laundering in connection with his role in arranging over $2 million in corrupt payments to influence the awarding of contracts with the Russian state-owned nuclear energy corporation. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein of the District of Maryland, Deputy Inspector General John R. Hartman of the U.S. Department of Energy-Office of Inspector General (DOE-OIG) and Assistant Director in Charge Andrew G. McCabe of the FBI’s Washington, D.C., Field Office made the announcement. Vadim Mikerin, 56, of Chevy Chase, Maryland, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Theodore D. Chuang of the District of Maryland. Sentencing is scheduled before Judge Chuang on Dec. 8, 2015. According to court documents, Mikerin was the president of TENAM Corporation and a director of the Pan American Department of JSC Techsnabexport (TENEX). TENAM, based in Bethesda, Maryland, is a wholly-owned subsidiary and the official representative of TENEX in the United States. TENEX, based in Moscow, acts as the sole supplier and exporter of Russian Federation uranium and uranium enrichment services to nuclear power companies worldwide. TENEX is a subsidiary of Russia’s State Atomic Energy Corporation. In connection with the scheme, Daren Condrey, 50, of Glenwood, Maryland, pleaded guilty on June 17, 2015, to conspiring to violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and conspiring to commit wire fraud, and will be sentenced on Nov. 2, 2015. Boris Rubizhevsky, 64, of Closter, New Jersey, pleaded guilty on June 15, 2015, to conspiracy to commit money laundering and will be sentenced on Oct. 19, 2015. According to court documents, between 2004 and October 2014, Mikerin conspired with Condrey, Rubizhevsky and others to transmit funds from Maryland and elsewhere in the United States to offshore shell company bank accounts located in Cyprus, Latvia and Switzerland. Mikerin admitted the funds were transmitted with the intent to promote a corrupt payment scheme that violated the FCPA. Specifically, he admitted that the corrupt payments were made by conspirators to influence Mikerin and to secure improper business advantages for U.S. companies that did business with TENEX. Mikerin further admitted that he and others used consulting agreements and code words such as “lucky figure,” “LF,” “cake” and “remuneration” to disguise the corrupt payments. According to court documents, over the course of the scheme, Mikerin conspired with Condrey, Rubizhevsky and others to transfer approximately $2,126,622 from the United States to offshore shell company bank accounts. As part of his plea agreement, Mikerin has agreed to the entry of a forfeiture money judgment in that amount. The case was investigated by DOE-OIG and the FBI. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Christopher Cestaro, Ephraim Wernick and Derek Ettinger of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys David I. Salem and Michael T. Packard of the District of Maryland.
corruption Michael J. Moore, United States Attorney for the Middle District of Georgia, announced that Hugh Stephen Worley, age 53, of Bethlehem, Georgia entered a plea of guilty on August 28, 2015, to one count of bribery before the Honorable C. Ashley Royal, U.S. District Court Judge, in Athens, Georgia. Mr. Worley served as Director of Public Works for the City of Monroe in Walton County, Georgia for approximately seventeen years. He was terminated in January of 2013 for “violations of personnel policies and procedures.” One such violation involved the rental of an Asphalt Paver from a local company. In 2008 or 2009, Sims Paving, Inc., a Monroe business, acquired an Asphalt Paver that could be used for small patching and paving jobs. Mr. Worley went to see the owner, Mr. Sims, about a paver that could be used for smaller jobs, such as paving the driveways in the City of Monroe Cemetery. In 2012, Mr. Sims and Mr. Worley came to a verbal agreement that the City would rent the paver for a total of $20,000 over four months. After the agreement, Mr. Worley told Mr. Sims on four separate occasions that he could use $1,000. He did not tell Mr. Sims about his need for the cash until after the agreed upon Paver rental. Fearful that Mr. Worley would renege on the rental deal, Mr. Sims gathered $1,000 together on the four separate occasions. The Paver was never used to pave the cemetery driveways. It sat idle at a cost of $20,000 to the City of Monroe. Mr. Worley admits he engaged in illegal course of conduct with Mr. Sims. Mr. Worley will be subjected to up to 10 years of incarceration and a $250,000 fine. He will also have to forfeit up to $28,771.61. “We count on those who work in local government positions to do their jobs with integrity and recognize that they are the stewards of the citizens’ tax money and trust,” said U.S. Attorney Michael Moore. “Instead of using his skills and resources to help the people of Monroe, Mr. Worley used his position to enrich himself at a cost to the people he was supposed to be serving.” The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Athens division. Assistant United States Attorney Danial Bennett is prosecuting the case for the Government. Questions concerning this case should be directed to Pamela Lightsey, Public Information Officer, United States Attorney’s Office, at (478) 621-2603.
corruption LAREDO, TX—A former Webb County justice of the peace (JP) and a former bail bondsman have been ordered to federal prison following their convictions of conspiracy and extortion under color of official right, announced U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson. Former Webb County Precinct 2, Place 2, JP Ricardo Rangel, 49, pleaded guilty Sept. 4, 2014, while former bail bondsman Juan Enrique Rodriguez, 36, entered his plea Dec. 17, 2014. Today, U.S. District Judge Diana Saldaña ordered Rangel, of Laredo, to serve 37 months in federal prison, while Rodriguez, also of Laredo, was sentenced to a 13-month-term. They will both be required to serve three years of supervised release following completion of their sentences. The court found Rangel had received multiple bribes and was a public official in a high-level decision making or sensitive position at the time he committed the crime and that Rodriguez had paid multiple bribes to have Rangel reduce bonds of criminal defendants. Rangel and Rodriguez were also ordered to pay fines in the amount of $5,000 and $15,000, respectfully. The investigation established that on or about March 25, 2012, Rangel, while performing his duties as a JP, did knowingly and unlawfully accept $250 not due him or his office from Rodriguez. In turn, Rangel granted a $1,000 surety bail bond on an individual who had been arrested and charged with the Texas State criminal offense of driving while intoxicated. Both were permitted to remain on bond and voluntarily surrender to a U.S. Bureau of Prisons facility to be determined in the near future. The charges are the result of an investigation conducted by the FBI. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Daniel C. Rodriguez and Roberto Ramirez prosecuted the case.
corruption LITTLE ROCK—Christopher R. Thyer, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Arkansas, and David Resch, Special Agent in Charge of the Little Rock Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), announced today that former Arkansas State Treasurer Martha Ann Shoffner, 71, of Newport, was sentenced to 30 months’ incarceration in the Bureau of Prisons following her conviction on six counts of extortion under color of official right, one count of attempted extortion under color of official right, and seven counts of receipt of a bribe by an agent of a state government receiving federal funds. In addition to the term of imprisonment, as part of that sentence handed down Friday by United States District Judge J. Leon Holmes, Shoffner was ordered to pay $31,980 in restitution to the State of Arkansas and a $100 special assessment on each count, for a total assessment of $1,400. The $4,020 in bribe money seized at the time of her arrest was forfeited. Shoffner’s prison term will be followed by two years of supervised release. “When a public official abuses his or her office and is personally enriched, the trust given by the citizens of Arkansas is violated,” Thyer said. “We are satisfied that the Court carefully weighed all appropriate factors in determining the sentence in this case.” “Public corruption betrays the trust that is necessary for our democracy,” Resch stated. “The FBI will continue to work with the United States Attorney’s Office to ensure those that participate in public corruption will be held accountable for their actions.” Martha Shoffner was elected as Treasurer for the State of Arkansas in 2006 and 2010. The United States presented testimony that historically, the Treasurer’s Office had used between 8 and 12 bond brokers throughout the state to purchase federal agency bonds for investment. During Shoffner’s first term in office, the bond inventory levels between the brokers was relatively comparable. In mid-2010, Shoffner and Steele Stephens, a broker with St. Bernard Financial, began an arrangement where Stephens made $6,000 payments to Shoffner every six months. In mid-2010, Stephens made the first $6,000 payment to Shoffner at the State Capitol, resulting in Stephens’ bond inventory increasing above that of other brokers for the State of Arkansas, ultimately reaching over $600 million in bond inventory in August 2012. In total, Stephens received approximately $2 billion in bond business, earning approximately $1,714,889.35 in commissions. Stephens made a total of six payments of $6,000 to Shoffner from mid-2010 through December 2012. Two payments were made at the Capitol, two payments were made at Shoffner’s Little Rock residence, and two payments were made at Shoffner’s home in Newport, Arkansas. Stephens concealed the $6,000 payments in a pie box when he delivered money to Shoffner in Newport. In January 2013, Stephens began cooperating with the FBI. As part of his cooperation, he recorded a meeting with Shoffner at her home in Newport. In May 2013, Stephens delivered a pie to Shoffner with $6,000 in FBI funds in the pie box. After the broker left Shoffner’s house, Special Agents with the FBI executed a search warrant at the house. Shoffner had taken the cash out of the pie box and placed it in a cigarette box in a kitchen drawer. She also told the FBI that she still had $4,020 from the December 2012 payment hidden in a cigarette box. Shoffner also received contributions for her November 2010 re-election campaign for Treasurer which she deposited in her campaign account. She had a personal credit card which she used to pay for personal expenses. Shoffner used contributors’ campaign funds to pay for her personal items on her credit card. Ten payments were made to pay her personal credit card between November 5, 2010, and October 9, 2011, ranging in amounts from $200 to $5,000. Shoffner concealed the expenditure of her campaign funds for her personal use. The charges stemmed from an investigation by the FBI’s ArkTrust Public Corruption Task Force. The ArkTrust Public Corruption Task Force is comprised of FBI Agents, and Task Force Officers from the Arkansas State Police Department, Pulaski County Sheriff’s Office, and the Little Rock Police Department. If you think you see public corruption contact the public corruption hotline at (501) 221-8200.
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, announced that GEORGE GALLO, 47, of East Hampton, was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge Vanessa L. Bryant in Hartford to 12 months and one day of imprisonment, followed by three years of supervised release, for receiving more than $100,000 from a political campaign direct mail vendor to whom he steered business. “While he was a well-paid state employee, this defendant took advantage of Connecticut’s public campaign financing system by steering business to campaign vendors with whom he had a business relationship and profited handsomely as a result,” stated U.S. Attorney Daly. “He further abused his position of trust as Chief of Staff to the Minority Leader of the Connecticut House of Representatives by lying and causing others to lie to candidates who were following his directions. This prison term should serve as a warning. Corrupt public employees will be prosecuted.” According to court documents and statements made in court, GALLO was an employee of the State of Connecticut as the Chief of Staff to the Minority Leader of the Connecticut House of Representatives. As part of his responsibilities, GALLO was responsible for designing and overseeing the campaign program of the House Republican Campaign Committee (“HRCC”), a state-registered political action committee that provides material and strategic support to Republican candidates for the Connecticut House of Representatives. In 2008, GALLO and others developed a HRCC campaign program in anticipation of the first general election cycle in which candidates seeking election to the Connecticut General Assembly or statewide office would receive public financing through the state’s Citizens’ Election Program (“CEP”). The purpose of the new program, in part, was to enable the HRCC to centrally coordinate CEP funded campaigns by providing Republican House candidates with access to comprehensive campaign related services, including direct mail services, voter information, polling, messaging advice and campaign management. GALLO selected the campaign service vendors that were permitted to participate in the HRCC program. GALLO informed an employee of a Florida-based company that provided direct mail services to political campaigns of a new business opportunity in Connecticut. GALLO indicated to the employee that the CEP would lead to greater numbers of well-funded Republican House candidates in need of direct mail services, and that the Florida company could serve as a HRCC sponsored vendor with access to CEP funded Republican candidates. In exchange, the company would make payments to GALLO equal to 10 percent of the revenue that the company received from candidates participating in the HRCC program. GALLO indicated to the employee that such an arrangement would be “good for [the company] and good for George Gallo.” The employee agreed to GALLO’s proposal. As part of the scheme, GALLO and the HRCC hosted “campaign schools” for House Republican candidates where HRCC sponsored vendors, including the Florida company, gave presentations marketing their services. GALLO and others arranged for candidates to meet individually with the Florida company to discuss in greater detail the company’s services, prices and a direct mail plan. These meetings occurred at several locations, including the State Capitol. During the 2008 and 2012 election cycles, GALLO made false representations to the Minority Leader of the Connecticut House of Representatives that he did not have a financial relationship with or receive any compensation from any of the HRCC sponsored vendors. During the 2008, 2010 and 2012 election cycles, GALLO made additional false representations to others, knowing that his statements would be communicated to House Republican candidates participating in the HRCC campaign program, that he did not receive any compensation from any HRCC sponsored vendor. From 2008 through 2012, the Florida company mailed checks made payable to the Vinco Group, a Cromwell based limited liability company in which GALLO was the sole member, totaling approximately $117,266.63. GALLO also made multiple false statements to FBI special agents on October 1, 2013, when he was interviewed about his relationship with HRCC sponsored vendors. In the interview, GALLO denied that either he or the Vinco Group had a business relationship with any vendors utilized by HRCC, and he denied that he had received any income through the Vinco Group since becoming Chief of Staff to the Connecticut House Minority Leader. Judge Bryant ordered GALLO to pay restitution in the amount of $117,266.63 On April 27, 2015, GALLO pleaded guilty to one count of mail fraud. GALLO was ordered to report to prison on November 30, 2015. This matter was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Internal Revenue Service – Criminal Investigation Division, with the assistance of the Connecticut Public Corruption Task Force and the State Election Enforcement Commission. The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher M. Mattei. Citizens are encouraged to report corruption to the Connecticut Public Corruption Task Force by calling 203-238-0505.
corruption RICHMOND, VA—Connie Richardson, 65, of Richmond, was sentenced today to 24 months in prison, followed by three years of supervised release for bribery concerning a program receiving federal funds. Richardson was also ordered to pay $158,428.09 in restitution. Richardson pleaded guilty on May 13, 2015. According to court documents, Richardson was employed by the Virginia Department of Juvenile Justice (VDJJ) as the Runaway Coordinator. In that role, Richardson was responsible for administering services related to the interstate compact for juveniles, which governs the transportation of juveniles from one state to another. Christopher C. Connor, 37, of Virginia Beach, Virginia, was the owner of Patriot Protective Services, Inc. (Patriot), a security company based in Norfolk, Virginia. In September 2010, VDJJ issued an invitation for bids soliciting sealed bids from contractors interested in providing transportation and escort services for juvenile offenders returning to the Virginia. In October 2010, Patriot and another security company, Border Security Solutions, LLC (Border), were awarded contracts to provide transportation and escort services to VDJJ for a period of two years, with an option to renew the contracts for three successive years. One week after the contracts were awarded, Connor paid Richardson $1,500 and continued to make periodic payments to Richardson from October 2010 through February 2015. During that period of time, Connor paid Richardson over $30,000 via cash, checks, deposits to a prepaid Visa card, and transfers between SunTrust bank accounts. In exchange for these payments from Connor, Richardson steered the vast majority of VDJJ’s transportation and escort requests to Patriot. She also knowingly approved inflated and falsified invoices submitted to Patriot. Richardson was informed by Border’s owner that his company had the capacity to transport more juveniles and charged less per hour for transportation and escort services than Patriot. Nonetheless, Richardson stopped assigning any new work to Border and Border closed for lack of business in September 2011. As a result of the relationship between Richardson and Connor, VDJJ paid Patriot over $469,000 for transportation and escort services from October 2010 through February 2015. Connor pleaded guilty on July 28, 2015 and will be sentenced on Oct. 29, 2015. Dana J. Boente, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia; and Adam S. Lee, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI’s Richmond Field Office made the announcement after sentencing by U.S. District Judge Robert E. Payne. This case was investigated by the FBI and the Virginia State Police. Assistant U.S. Attorney Katherine Lee Martin prosecuted the case. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia or on PACER by searching for Case Nos. 3:15-cr-78 and 3:15-cr-133.
corruption A former police officer was indicted for two counts of selling firearms to people he knew were felons, said Steven M. Dettelbach, U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio, and Stephen D. Anthony, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI’s Cleveland office. Kevin R. Lumpkin, 29, of North Olmsted, is accused of selling a Hi-Point .45-caliber rifle and a Ruger .380-caliber pistol on different occassions to people he knew were convicted of felonies and therefore forbidden from possessing a firearm. These sales took place between 2011 and 2013, when Lumpkin was a North Randall police officer, according to court documents. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney M. Kendra Klump following an investigation by the FBI. If convicted, the defendant’s sentence will be determined by the Court after review of factors unique to this case, including the defendant’s prior criminal record, if any, the defendant’s role in the offense and the characteristics of the violation. In all cases the sentence will not exceed the statutory maximum and in most cases it will be less than the maximum. An indictment is only a charge and is not evidence of guilt. A defendant is entitled to a fair trial in which it will be the government’s burden to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption COLUMBIA, SC—United States Attorney Bill Nettles stated today that Benita Dinkins-Robinson, age 40, of Bishopville, South Carolina, was sentenced in federal court in Columbia, South Carolina, for embezzling government funds in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 641. United States Chief District Judge Terry Wooten sentenced Dinkins-Robinson to 42 months’ imprisonment and ordered her to pay over $1.5 million in restitution. Evidence presented during the ten-day trial and during the asset forfeiture phase of the case established that from 2007 to 2013, Dinkins-Robinson embezzled more than a million dollars in federal funds supplied by United States Department of Agriculture and the United States Department of Education that were intended to be used for the Mary L. Dinkins Higher Learning Academy, a charter school Dinkins-Robinson established in 2005. The jury also determined that Dinkins-Robinson must forfeit over $750,000 in annuities that she purchased while serving as the Executive Director of the charter school as well as her share in a Camden house that she owned. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the United States Department of Education Office of Inspector General. Assistant United States Attorneys Winston Holliday and Ben Garner of the Columbia office handled the case.
corruption In San Antonio, 44-year-old Fernando Jose De Leon, former Assistant Development Services Director of the Land Development Division within the City of San Antonio’s Planning and Development Services Department, was sentenced to 14 months in federal prison for his role in a bribery scheme involving city contracts announced United States Attorney Richard L. Durbin, Jr., Federal Bureau of Investigation Special Agent in Charge Christopher Combs, San Antonio Division, and Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation Special Agent in Charge William Cotter, San Antonio. In addition to the prison term, United States District Judge Xavier Rodriguez ordered that De Leon pay almost $284,949.21 restitution and be placed on supervised release for a period of three years after completing his prison term. According to court records, between 2004 and 2009, the defendant conspired with 51-year-old Oscar Gilberto Rodriguez, a former employee of the San Antonio firm Pape-Dawson Engineers, Inc., to defraud and steal money from Pape-Dawson and its clients through Rapid Permit Service, Inc. (RPS). RPS was a hoax company created by De Leon and Rodriguez to do permit expediting work on Pape-Dawson projects. As part of the conspiracy, Rodriguez would submit fraudulent RPS invoices to Pape-Dawson for payment. Rodriguez and De Leon subsequently divided the illegally obtained proceeds. Last month, Rodriguez was sentenced to 30 months in federal prison and ordered to pay over $315,000 restitution. On October 16, 2014, Rodriguez and De Leon each pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit wire fraud, mail fraud and to use interstate communication facilities to facilitate bribery under Texas law. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney James Blankinship is prosecuting this case on behalf of the Government.
corruption WASHINGTON—A former Deputy Treasurer of Ohio has been extradited from Pakistan to the United States to serve a 15-year prison sentence for his role in a bribery and money laundering scheme involving the Ohio Treasurer’s Office. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, First Assistant U.S. Attorney Mark T. D’Alessandro of the Southern District of Ohio, Special Agent in Charge Angela L. Byers of the FBI’s Cincinnati Division, Attorney General Mike DeWine of Ohio and U.S. Marshal Peter C. Tobin of the Southern District of Ohio made the announcement. Amer Ahmad, 40, of Chicago, pleaded guilty in December 2013 to federal program bribery and conspiracy to commit federal program bribery, honest services wire fraud, and money laundering. Following his guilty plea, Ahmad fled the United States and was arrested by Pakistan authorities while attempting to illegally enter that country. He has remained in custody and the U.S. government requested his extradition. On Dec. 1, 2014, Ahmad was sentenced in abstentia by U.S. District Judge Michael H. Watson of the Southern District of Ohio to 15 years in prison and ordered to forfeit $3.2 million in illicit proceeds. “Today’s extradition demonstrates the never-ceasing efforts by investigators at home and abroad to bring to justice those who abuse positions of power to defraud,” said First Assistant U.S. Attorney Mark T. D’Alessandro of the Southern District of Ohio. “Amer Ahmad abused the public’s trust and ran halfway across the globe to hide,” stated FBI Cincinnati Special Agent in Charge Angela L. Byers. “Tenacious FBI Special Agents and investigators continued to pursue Ahmad until he could be returned to face justice. Now he will have plenty of time to reflect on his corrupt actions while serving out his lengthy prison sentence.” “Deputy U.S. Marshals and FBI Special Agents worked hand in hand to track fugitive Ahmad and return him to justice,” said Pete Tobin, U.S. Marshal, Southern District of Ohio. “If you violate the trust of the American public and the laws of the land, we will pursue you wherever you may be found.” According to admissions in connection with his guilty plea, from January 2009 through January 2011, Ahmad used his position as Deputy Treasurer to direct official state of Ohio business to securities broker Douglas E. Hampton in return for bribes. Ahmad and Chicago businessman Joseph Chiavaroli concealed the payments received from Hampton by passing them through the accounts of their landscaping business. Hampton also funneled more than $123,000 to Mohammed Noure Alo, an attorney and lobbyist who was Ahmad’s close personal friend and business associate. Over the course of the scheme, Hampton paid in excess of $500,000 in bribes and received, in exchange, approximately $3.2 million in commissions for 360 securities trades on behalf of the Ohio Treasurer’s Office. Hampton and Alo were sentenced in November 2014 to 45 months in prison and 48 months in prison, respectively, for their roles in the scheme. Chiavaroli was sentenced in December 2014 to 18 months in prison. A remand hearing is being scheduled to be held at 10 a.m. on Friday in front of U.S. District Court Judge Michael H. Watson. The case was investigated by the FBI’s Central Ohio Public Corruption Task Force, which includes special agents from the FBI and the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation. The U.S. Marshals Service joined the investigation after Ahmad fled the United States. The Criminal Division’s Office of International Affairs provided significant assistance in this matter. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Douglas W. Squires of the Southern District of Ohio and Trial Attorneys Eric L. Gibson and Menaka Kalaskar of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section.
corruption HARRISBURG—The United States Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania announced that a York County woman was sentenced today to five years’ probation by U.S. District Court Judge Sylvia H. Rambo for theft of public funds. According to United States Attorney Peter Smith, Melissa Ann Arnold, age 46, was charged in February 2015 for stealing more than $300,000 from tax payments made by citizens to Spring Garden Township, York County during 2008 and 2009. Arnold was the Treasurer and Tax Collector for Spring Garden Township from 1995 until October 2009. Arnold was able to steal the tax payments because many of the checks were written out to her and, rather than deposit the checks into the Township’s account, she deposited them into her personal account. Arnold pled guilty in March 2015. York County submitted an insurance claim for the funds and received a significant repayment. Arnold entered into an agreement with the insurance company to pay back the full amount of the claim and has already paid almost $50,000 of the amount due. Judge Rambo made payment of the balance, as well as an additional sum of almost $28,000 to Spring Garden Township for related losses, part of Arnold’s sentence in a restitution order. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation with assistance of the Pennsylvania State Police and Spring Garden Township Police Department, and was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney James T. Clancy.
corruption RALEIGH—United States Attorney Thomas G. Walker announces that on August 19, 2015, a federal grand jury in Raleigh returned a four count Indictment against two former Correctional Officers that worked at Polk Correctional Institution (“Polk”) in Butner, North Carolina. The Indictment charges GREGORY DUSTIN GOULDMAN, 31 and JASON DEAN, 29, each with one count of Extortion Under Color of Official Right, 18 U.S.C. § 1951. Additionally, DEAN was charged with one count of making a False Statement to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, 18 U.S.C § 1001, and one count of lying before a federal Grand Jury, 18 U.S.C. § 1623. U.S. Attorney Walker stated, “Corruption by correction officers undermines the criminal justice system and puts the general public at risk. We will always prosecute these kinds of cases to maintain the integrity of our system.” GOULDMAN was employed as a Correctional Officer at Polk from 2005, through May of 2015. From 2012, through September of 2014, GOULDMAN held the position of Sergeant and worked as a supervisor in Polk’s “high security maximum control unit” (hereinafter “HCON”). The HCON unit was opened in 1998 to serve as North Carolina’s supermax prison for “the state’s most violent and assaultive offenders.” The indictment alleges that GOULDMAN engaged in a scheme with a number of prisoners held in HCON under which he smuggled tobacco, marijuana, cellular telephones, and packages of AA batteries (often used to fashion a device for charging the cellular telephones) to such inmates in exchange for cash. The cellular telephones were used by the inmates to communicate with persons outside of prison. It is further alleged that, after being transferred out of HCON in September of 2014, GOULDMAN continued to smuggle contraband into Polk for at least one additional inmate. DEAN is alleged to have misused his position as a Correction Officer to extort things of value from inmates. DEAN is also alleged to have lied as to a material fact during an interview with FBI Agents and to have committed perjury while testifying before a federal Grand Jury. The United States Attorney’s Office and FBI’s investigation into Polk was prompted by the circumstances relating to the kidnapping conspiracy alleged to have been orchestrated by defendant Kelvin Melton through the use of a cellular telephone in his cell in HCON. “These men put many lives at risk for their own profit. They were entrusted with the responsibility of ensuring that North Carolina’s convicted criminals serve their sentences. Instead, this type of conduct made it possible for a dangerous gang member to reach outside of prison walls which lead to the kidnapping of Mr. Frank Janssen. The FBI will keep pursuing this case and will not stop until everyone who played a role in this ruthless crime is held accountable,” said John Strong, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI. Polk is operated under the purview of the North Carolina Department of Public Safety (“DPS”). DPS Secretary Frank L. Perry said: “The department has participated in and cooperated with this investigation and we strongly support this prosecution in this very serious case to the fullest extent of the law. DPS has so many professional and dedicated employees who serve the state in this very challenging and dangerous environment and it is truly regrettable when a corrupt staff member puts their co-workers and the public at risk.” If convicted of Extortion Under Color of Official Rights both defendants face maximum imprisonment of 20 years and a fine of $250,000. In addition, DEAN faces a maximum of five years’ imprisonment if convicted of making a False Statement and a fine of $250,000 and five years’ imprisonment if convicted of Perjury and a fine of $250,000. The charges and allegations contained in the Indictment are merely accusations. The defendants are considered innocent unless and until proven guilty in a court of law. The case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Dennis Duffy and Leslie Cooley.
corruption An East Cleveland businessman was charged for attempting to bribe a councilman in that city in exchange for support in getting a liquor license, said Steven M. Dettelbach, U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio, and Stephen D. Anthony, Special Agent in Charge of the Cleveland Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Mukundkumar Patel, 52, was charged in a criminal information with one count of bribery concerning programs receiving federal funds. “This councilman acted as we expect all public officials would and immediately reported a bribe offer to the FBI, who did great work following up,” Dettelbach said. “The lesson of this case is simple: ‘briber beware.’” “We will not tolerate individuals believing they can circumvent the law by bribing a public official,” Anthony said. “The FBI commends the public official involved for adhering to his ethical principles by not accepting the bribe made by this business owner.” Patel began renovating the former bar area of McCalls into a Convenient Food Mart which would sell beer and wine. Doing so would require a liquor license, which requires a written application endorsed by the city of East Cleveland, according to the information. Patel submitted a liquor license application. City officials told Patel they were not inclined to endorse his application but would consider his request after speaking with community stakeholders, according to the information. On October 15, 2014, Patel met with an East Cleveland councilman, identified in the charges only as Public Official 1, and offered to pay $2,000 if the councilman would sign the application. The councilman refused and Patel raised his offer to $3,000. The councilman again refused and Patel told the councilman to name his price, according to the information. Unbeknownst to Patel, the councilman contacted the FBI to report the bribe solicitation. On Oct. 23, 2014, Patel again met with the councilman, who was acting at the FBI’s direction. Patel offered the councilman $4,000 up front and $1,000 later in return for signing Patel’s beer and wine application, according to the information. The next day, Patel and the councilman met again and Patel paid him $4,000 in cash. The councilman turned the money over to the FBI, according to the information. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Antoinette T. Bacon following an investigation by the FBI. If convicted, the defendant’s sentence will be determined by the court after a review of the federal sentencing guidelines and factors unique to the case, including the defendant’s prior criminal record (if any), the defendant’s role in the offense and the characteristics of the violation. A charge not evidence of guilt. A defendant is entitled to a fair trial in which it will be the government’s burden to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption JACKSON, MS—Irb Benjamin, 69, of Madison, and Sam Waggoner, 61, of Carthage, were charged today with paying bribes and kickbacks to former Mississippi Department of Corrections Commissioner (MDOC) Christopher B. Epps in exchange for receiving contracts involving the MDOC and its operations, announced Acting United States Attorney Harold Brittain, FBI Special Agent in Charge (SAC) Donald Alway, IRS-Criminal Investigation Special Agent in Charge Jerome McDuffie, U.S. Postal Inspector Robert Wemyss, and Mississippi State Auditor Stacey Pickering. Benjamin was charged in a three count indictment returned by a federal grand jury with conspiracy to commit honest services wire fraud and with two counts of bribery. According to the indictment returned against Benjamin, from some time in 2010 until September, 2014, Benjamin gave Epps bribes and kickbacks in exchange for Epps awarding or directing the awarding of MDOC contracts or work to Benjamin’s company, Mississippi Correctional Management (MCM), to provide alcohol and drug treatment services to inmates at MDOC work centers in Alcorn and Simpson Counties. MCM was paid about $774,000.00 as a result of those contracts. The indictment alleges that Benjamin paid Epps for Epps’ help in getting MCM consulting contracts with Alcorn, Washington and Chickasaw Counties. Those contracts involved Benjamin providing consulting services during the construction and the subsequent operation of three regional corrections facilities. Benjamin purportedly provided consulting services to assist the regional corrections facilities in obtaining and maintaining accreditation by the American Correctional Association. The contract with Alcorn County paid MCM about $399,260.00; the contract with Washington County paid MCM about $245,080.00; and, the contract with Chickasaw County paid MCM about $217,900.00. The indictment also alleges that Benjamin paid Epps monthly kickbacks from the consultant fees Benjamin received from Carter Gobal Lee Facility Management (CGL), after CGL obtained a contract in 2014 to provide maintenance services to MDOC facilities. Epps used his influence over CGL to get Benjamin the job as a consultant for CGL. The value of the CGL contract was $4,800,000. Waggoner was charged by Criminal Information with one count of bribery related to his payments of bribes and kickbacks to Epps from sometime in 2012 until at least August 26, 2014. According to the Criminal Information, Waggoner was a consultant for Global Tel-Link (GTL), which provided telephone services at MDOC facilities. The Criminal Information cites two specific instances in 2014 where Waggoner paid Epps kickbacks from money Waggoner received from GTL as a consultant. Harold Brittain, Acting U.S. Attorney in this case, stated: “The abuse of power and position by public officials has plagued our state for many years. Our tolerance for public corruption is zero. We will hold accountable under the law everyone who bears the responsibility of public service and sells the trust that has been bestowed upon them. We will not tolerate such fraud and abuses by public officials that have cost our citizens so dearly.” In commenting on this case, FBI SAC Donald Alway applauded the investigators and prosecutors, whose hard work and determined efforts revealed these additional participants in this conspiracy of public corruption, and led to the charges announced today. He added, “Our society will not tolerate bribery, kickbacks, or other ‘under-the-table’ deals. This is not just another cost of doing business with government. The FBI, working alongside its law enforcement partners, will use every appropriate tool and available resource to find, stop, and punish those who conspire to betray the public trust in order to enrich themselves.” “Postal Inspectors bring to a task force unique skills for hunting down suspected fraud through the U.S. Mail,” said U.S. Postal Inspector in Charge Adrian Gonzalez. “Postal Inspectors steadfastly work with our partners and defend the nation’s mail system in hopes that criminals abusing the American public’s trust are brought to justice.” Special Agent Jerome R. McDuffie, IRS—Criminal Investigation, stated: “This is a very important investigation to the state of Mississippi and all individuals who rely on the trust they instill in their public officials, whether elected or appointed. The extent to which Christopher Epps has damaged that trust will require as much effort to rebuild as it did to uncover. The Special Agents of IRS—Criminal Investigation remain committed to working with our law enforcement partners in uncovering public corruption at even the highest levels of government, as well holding accountable those individuals involved.” “We will continue to fight public corruption in Mississippi and work with our partners,” said State Auditor Pickering. “Our agents and this team are working daily to identify and bring charges against all individuals associated with the Mississippi Department of Corrections case. I’d like to thank the U.S. Attorney’s Office, FBI, IRS, and the U.S. Postal Service for a joint effort in this ongoing case.” Both defendants are scheduled to make their initial appearances before U.S. Magistrate Judge F. Keith Ball on Friday, August 21, 2015, at 1:30 p.m. Waggoner faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000.00 fine, as well as forfeiture of the proceeds he obtained as a result of the illegal conduct. Benjamin faces a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a $250,000.00 fine for the conspiracy count, and a maximum of 10 years in prison and a $250,000.00 fine for each of the bribery counts. Benjamin also faces the forfeiture of his ill-gotten gains. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, U.S. Postal Inspection Service, Mississippi State Auditor’s Office and IRS Criminal Investigation. It is being prosecuted by Deputy Criminal Chief Darren LaMarca, Assistant United States Attorney Scott Gilbert, and financial analyst Kim Mitchell.
corruption TULSA, OK—Oklahoma State Senator Ricky L. Brinkley pleaded guilty today to fraudulently obtaining over $1.2 million dollars from the Better Business Bureau (“BBB”) and subscribing to a false tax return. United States Attorney Danny C. Williams Sr. of the Northern District of Oklahoma; FBI Special Agent in Charge Scott L. Cruse of the Oklahoma City Division; IRS-Criminal Investigation Acting Special Agent in Charge Madie Branch of the Dallas Field Office; and Director Stan Florence of the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation made the announcement. Brinkley, 54, of Owasso, Oklahoma, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Court Judge Claire V. Eagan to five-counts of wire fraud and one-count of subscribing to a false tax return. Sentencing is scheduled on November 20, 2015. Brinkley represents the 34th District, including Owasso, Collinsville, Skiatook, Sperry, Turley, and Tulsa. From August 2, 1999 to April 26, 2015, Brinkley served as the President and Chief Executive Officer and then the Chief Operations Officer of the Better Business Bureau (BBB). During his employment, Brinkley was responsible for the operation, accounting, and financial management including paying bills and signing checks on behalf of the BBB. According to admissions made in connection with his guilty plea, from November 2005 to February 2015, Brinkley diverted in excess of $1.2 million dollars from the BBB through the creation of fraudulent invoices for services not rendered, and improperly represented these invoices as reimbursement for legitimate BBB expenses. He also admitted that he fraudulently signed checks, transferred, used, and disbursed BBB funds to pay personal expenses and debts including mortgage payments, expenses for pool cleaning services at his home, and his personal American Express, Discover, and Visa cards. Brinkley further admitted that he used BBB’s credit card to make cash withdrawals at automated teller machines located within casinos to support his gambling habit and that he would also create and process for payment false invoices using BBB’s funds for payment. The United States believes the loss amount is closer to $1.8 million. Final loss and restitution amounts will be determined prior to sentencing. In addition to the fraudulent diversion of funds from the BBB, Brinkley admitted that he failed to report the monies and funds on his federal tax return and that he subscribed a false tax return for tax year 2013 by failing to report approximately $148,390 in income. United States Attorney Williams stated that, “non-profit organizations such as the BBB provide the community with resources to make informed decisions in the marketplace. The BBB’s vision is ‘an ethical marketplace where buyers and sellers trust each other.’ Brinkley has abused the trust of the BBB board, its business members, marketplace consumers, and the trust the public has placed in him. BBB has worked with federal and state agencies by identifying the diverted funds. I hope this investigation and conviction is a step towards strengthening the trust of BBB members and consumers, and will allow BBB to continue to provide valuable services to the community.” FBI Special Agent in Charge Cruse stated that, “criminal investigations against those holding positions of public trust are never easy, but they are among some of the most important cases that we do in the FBI. That is because we hold our public servants to a higher standard. Our citizens expect their public servants to uphold the law in all aspects of their lives, whether it be in connection with their public responsibilities or in their personal endeavors. The FBI, along with our law enforcement partners, will continue to aggressively target those entrusted by organizations to manage their funds who choose to exploit this trust for their personal gain.” IRS-CI Acting Special Agent in Charge Branch stated that, “although the BBB emphasizes high ethical standards, honesty, and legal compliance for themselves and their business partners, Mr. Brinkley chose to violate each of these tenets by conducting himself in a financially irresponsible manner. Filing a false income tax return is totally unfair to those American citizens who file accurate tax returns, and is inconsistent with his background as a public servant. However, the public can be confident in the fact that IRS-Criminal Investigation pursues justice on their behalf in seeking prosecution of anyone, regardless of status, who violates the tax laws.” “Late last year, OSBI developed information indicating potential crimes were committed from within the Tulsa BBB. Once OSBI opened a criminal investigation at the request of Tulsa County D.A. Steve Kunzweiler, it became apparent federal laws may also have been broken. OSBI appreciates the FBI and IRS’s willingness to work with OSBI agents to ensure justice, both on the federal and state levels, is served,” OSBI Director Stan Florence said. Brinkley faces a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine, or twice the pecuniary gain/loss caused by the defendant’s acts for the wire fraud charges; and the maximum penalty is three years in prison and a $250,000 fine for the filing of a false tax return. Brinkley has also agreed to the forfeiture of funds in the amount of $1,829,033.86 representing proceeds of the wire fraud scheme. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation, and the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Clinton J. Johnson, Clemon Ashley, Shannon Cozzoni, and Catherine Depew.
corruption Kirk Chambers, a former Trooper with the Florida Highway Patrol (FHP), was sentenced today before U.S. District Court Judge Cecilia Altonaga for his participation in a bribery scheme. Wifredo A. Ferrer, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida and George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation, (FBI), Miami Field Office, made the announcement. On August 20, 2015, U.S. District Court Judge Cecilia Altonaga sentenced former FHP Trooper Kirk Chambers to 51 months’ imprisonment. Chambers had previously pleaded guilty to violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1951(a), that is, participating in a conspiracy to affect commerce through extortion under color of law. Chambers’ co-conspirator in the offense, Guillermo “Tony” Sepulveda was previously sentenced by Judge Altonaga to 37 months’ imprisonment on August 4, 2015. According to the facts set forth in court documents, Chambers was employed as a sworn FHP Trooper between 2006 and 2015. In 2013, the FBI and local law enforcement agencies opened an investigation into allegations that South Florida law enforcement personnel were being paid bribes by local wrecker operators to illegally solicit business from stranded drivers at accident scenes. Chambers was one of the officers identified as taking bribes. In 2014, an FBI confidential source (CHS) approached Guillermo “Tony” Sepulveda, the owner and operator of a local Miami based towing company. Under FBI direction, the CHS told Sepulveda that he had a corrupt “chiropractor” that was interested in purchasing confidential accident information from law enforcement in order to permit the chiropractor to illegally solicit business from the accident victims. Sepulveda agreed to participate and introduced the CHS to Trooper Chambers. Between September and November 2014, Chambers used his position to download the personal information of approximately 100 accident victims from FHP servers. Chambers provided that information to the CHS in return for $5,000, during a series of transactions. For his part in the conspiracy, Sepulveda was paid $1,200. On January 22, 2015, Chambers was interviewed by the FBI and admitted participating in the bribery scheme. Chambers also admitted being paid thousands of dollars in bribes by various tow truck operators for a number of years. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI Miami Area Corruption Task Force, Florida Division of Insurance Fraud and the Florida Highway Patrol. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Anthony Lacosta. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Southern District of Florida at www.flsd.uscourts.gov or on http://pacer.flsd.uscourts.gov.
corruption SACRAMENTO, CA—Anthony Castaneda, 45, resident of Oakdale, pled guilty today before Judge Morrison C. England Jr. to Receipt of a Gratuity by a Public Official, United States Attorney Benjamin B. Wagner announced. According to court documents, while working as a contracting official at the Department of Veterans Affairs, Castaneda was in a position to influence the award of construction contracts at VA facilities, including the VA hospital at the former Mather Field in Sacramento. In 2010, a construction contractor provided Castaneda with a prepaid vacation package at a theme park worth approximately $2,243.56. Castaneda and his family traveled to the theme park for five days in October 2010. At the time that he accepted that gift, Castaneda was in a position to influence the award of construction contracts by making recommendations about which contractors should be given VA business. Court records also show that Castaneda received a second vacation package from the same contractor, worth approximately $1,439, in 2008. The contractor in question has been charged separately in federal court in San Jose: United States v. Herrera, case number 5:14-cr-219. This case was the product of an investigation by the Veterans Affairs Office of Inspector General and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Matthew G. Morris is prosecuting the case. Castaneda faces a maximum statutory penalty of two years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Any sentence, however, would be determined at the discretion of the court after consideration of any applicable statutory factors and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, which take into account a number of variables. A conviction can also result in Castaneda being debarred from being awarded government procurement contracts in the future for up to five years.
corruption MEMPHIS, TN—Four former Shelby County Corrections Deputies have all pled guilty to attempting to smuggle and distribute OxyContin inside a correctional facility. The pleas were announced by Edward L. Stanton III, U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Tennessee. According to the indictments, the four defendants—Torriano Vaughn, Brian Grammer, Anthony Thomas, and Marcus Green—all participated in a scheme to smuggle what they thought were OxyContin pills inside of the Shelby County Jail on multiple occasions between May and December 2014. After inmates informed law enforcement officers of the defendants’ illicit conduct, an undercover investigation was initiated. The investigation involved law enforcement agents posing as associates of cooperating inmates. These inmates would make arrangements with the jailers to have various amounts of OxyContin pills smuggled into jail in exchange for hundreds of dollars. The undercover agents posing as associates of the inmates met with each jailer at various locations in the city. Three undercover transactions were conducted with each defendant. During these transactions, the agents provided the defendants with several hundred dollars and varying amounts of pills, which were presumed to be OxyContin. In actuality, the pills were “placebos,” a pill or substance that has no therapeutic effect. After each transaction, the defendants would smuggle the presumed OxyContin pills into the jail and provide them to cooperating inmates. All of the placebos provided to the jailers were ultimately recovered by law enforcement agents. All four defendants have pled guilty to attempted possession of a controlled substance with the intent to distribute. They each face up to 20 years’ imprisonment when convicted. Each defendant also faces up to a $1 million fine. Thomas is scheduled to be sentenced on Friday, October 9th at 9:30 a.m. by Judge John T. Fowlkes Jr. Green is scheduled to be sentenced on Friday, October 23rd at 11 a.m. by Judge Jon Phipps McCalla. Grammer is scheduled to be sentenced on Tuesday, November 3rd at 9:30 a.m. by Judge Jon Phipps McCalla. Vaughn is scheduled to be sentenced on Friday, November 6th, at 9:30 a.m. by Judge Sheryl H. Lipman. The case was investigated by the Tarnished Badge Task Force. The collective is comprised of: the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Shelby County Sheriff’s Department, and Memphis Police Department. Assistant U.S. Attorney Brian K. Coleman is prosecuting the case on behalf of the government.
corruption ATLANTA—John Boyer, the husband of former DeKalb County, Georgia, Commissioner Elaine Boyer, has been sentenced to one year and one day in federal prison for conspiring to steal county money. His plea and corruption charges stem from Elaine Boyer’s conviction on similar charges in September 2014. “John Boyer used his wife’s position as a DeKalb County Commissioner to steal thousands of dollars in taxpayer funds. The Boyers’ scheme put county money in their pockets and ultimately left the citizens of DeKalb County holding the tab,” said U.S. Attorney John A. Horn. “In a county that has recently seen its share of corruption cases, this is a particularly sad chapter.” “The sentencing of Mr. Boyer further illustrates that there are consequences for those who assist or entice public officials with regard to criminal corrupt activities. The FBI continues to make public corruption investigations its number one criminal program priority and asks that anyone with information regarding such activity to notify their nearest FBI field office,” said J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office. According to U.S. Attorney Horn, the charges, and other information presented in court: In DeKalb County, Georgia, the Board of Commissioners serves as the legislative branch of the DeKalb County Government. The Board of Commissioners is comprised of seven part-time commissioners, who are elected to serve four-year terms. Each of the seven Commissioners is responsible for the management of their respective offices, which includes controlling the offices’ budget and hiring staff members, contractors, and consultants. In recent years, the operating budget for a Commissioner’s office has been approximately $250,000 per year. The Commissioners may use their budget only for county-related business. In 1992, Elaine Boyer began serving as the Commissioner of District 1, which serves citizens in north DeKalb County, including Brookhaven, Dunwoody, Tucker, and Smoke Rise, Georgia. In August 2014, Elaine Boyer resigned mid-term as the Commissioner of District 1. In 2009, Elaine and John Boyer experienced financial difficulties. As a result, an unlawful kickback scheme was devised to obtain money from DeKalb County. In particular, in or about September 2009, Elaine Boyer, as the Commissioner of District 1, hired a family-friend Marion Rooks Boynton (who has been separately charged) as a political advisor allegedly to assist her with government consulting. As part of the scheme, false invoices were submitted to Elaine Boyer’s office for services supposedly rendered by Boynton. In fact, Boynton performed no services for DeKalb County government, Elaine Boyer’s Office, or the citizens of DeKalb County. Elaine Boyer used the false invoices as a basis to authorize payments to Boynton. From September 2009 to November 2011, based on requisition requests from Elaine Boyer’s Office, DeKalb County issued approximately 35 checks to Boynton for consulting services that were never performed. In total, DeKalb County paid Boynton more than $85,000. John Boyer then instructed Boynton to deposit the money that Boynton received from DeKalb County into a bank account used by Elaine and John Boyer. Consequently, after being paid by DeKalb County, Boynton funneled approximately $60,000 received from DeKalb County into a personal bank account used by the Boyers. In turn, the Boyers used the money deposited into the account to pay personal living expenses. In August 2014, Elaine Boyer, 59, of Stone Mountain, Georgia, resigned mid-term as the Commissioner of District 1. The day after resigning, Boyer was charged with conspiring to commit wire and mail fraud. On March 20, 2015, Boyer was sentenced to one year, two months in prison and ordered to pay approximately $87,000 in restitution. On February 24, 2015, John Boyer, 63, of Stone Mountain, Georgia, pleaded guilty to conspiring to commit mail fraud. Boyer was sentenced to one year and one day in federal prison, three years of supervised release, and ordered to pay approximately $87,000 in restitution. On August 11, 2015, the Grand Jury returned an indictment against Marion Rooks Boynton, 73, of Saint Simons Island, Georgia, on charges of conspiracy and substantive federal program theft. This case is being investigated by Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeffrey W. Davis is prosecuting the case.
corruption A Virginia executive was convicted by a federal jury on 14 counts related to providing things of value to the former director of the Cleveland and Dayton Veterans Affairs Medical Center in exchange for confidential information about VA construction projects, law enforcement officials said. Mark S. Farmer, 55, of Arlington, Virginia, was convicted on one count of conspiracy, one count of violating the Hobbs Act, two counts of wire fraud, six counts of mail fraud and four counts of theft of government property. He is scheduled to be sentenced Nov. 9. Farmer was employed at CannonDesign, an integrated design firm headquartered in Buffalo, New York, that performed work for the VA. He worked in several different capacities, including associate principal. Farmer and CannonDesign received VA records and things of value, including non-public information concerning the VA and streamlined access to public information concerning the VA, which William Montague had embezzled and stolen without authority from the VA. This was done to give Farmer and CannonDesign an advantage over other companies in the awarding and administration of VA business, according to court documents and trial testimony. Montague, the former director of the Cleveland and Dayton Veterans Affairs Medical Center, previously pleaded guilty to 64 counts related to his role in the conspiracy. He is awaiting sentencing. “Bribing a public official to obtain internal government documents and information for a competitive business advantage is illegal,” said Stephen D. Anthony, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Cleveland Office. “The FBI will continue to root out corruption at all levels.” “Today’s verdict shows contractors and VA executives who cheat the taxpayers and veterans will be held accountable,” said Gavin McClaren, U.S. VA OIG, Resident Agent in Charge, Cleveland. Farmer asked Montague to obtain information concerning VA contracts and business, including VA records. Montague used his power and influence at the VA to gain access to VA employees in ways that Farmer could not. Montague gave false and misleading information to VA employees about Montague’s reasons for requesting VA records and information, according to court records and trial testimony. The case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Antoinette T. Bacon and Paul Flannery following an investigation by the FBI and United States Department of Veterans Affairs—Office of Inspector General.
corruption INDIANAPOLIS—Josh J. Minkler, United States Attorney, announced today that Edward B. Tunwar, 55, was sentenced to prison today by U.S. District Judge Jane E. Magnus-Stinson for his role in smuggling contraband into the United States Penitentiary in Terre Haute. Tunwar was employed as a correctional officer at the United States Penitentiary in Terre Haute from June 2013 through December 16, 2013. During that time, Tunwar supervised the operations of the kitchen in the penitentiary. While working in the kitchen, Tunwar provided a federal inmate with multiple cellular telephones and 130 packs of tobacco. On December 9, 2013, Tunwar smuggled an ounce of heroin into the penitentiary and delivered it to another federal inmate. Prison guards at the penitentiary seized the heroin inside of the prison. Tunwar was sentenced to 52 months’ imprisonment following his guilty plea to providing contraband in prison. Tunwar was also fined $1,000 and sentenced to one year of supervised release. The investigation into Tunwar’s illegal activity was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Department of Justice Office of Inspector General.
corruption BALTIMORE, MD—William Charles Nemec, Sr., age 55, of Baltimore, pleaded guilty today to conspiracy and solicitation of bribes in connection with a scheme in which Department of Public Works (DPW) employees sought and accepted cash payments from commercial haulers in return for allowing the commercial haulers to deposit trash at the Quarantine Road Landfill without paying the required disposal fees. Nemec also admitted to participating in a scheme in which employees stole scrap metal from the Landfill for personal gain. The plea agreement was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Acting Special Agent in Charge Scott Hinckley of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Robert H. Pearre, Jr., Inspector General, City of Baltimore Office of Inspector General; Special Agent in Charge Thomas Jankowski of the Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation, Washington, D.C. Field Office; and Colonel William M. Pallozzi, Superintendent of the Maryland State Police. Baltimore City residents can deposit small amounts of trash and/or recyclables in dumpsters located near the main entrance of the Landfill, free of charge. Individuals or companies commercially hauling trash that have registered their vehicles with the City and obtained Landfill permits, as well as Baltimore City residents with larger loads, must deposit their trash in an open area located farther within the Landfill. Commercial haulers of trash that meet certain vehicle weight limitations must, in addition to purchasing a Landfill permit, pay a waste disposal fee of $67.50 per ton of trash deposited at the Landfill. DPW employees assigned as scale house operators weigh each truck as it enters the Landfill, which is recorded on a computerized point-of-sale system. To activate the system and record a particular transaction, DPW employees must enter the tag number of the truck and a corresponding billing code. The scale house operators reweigh each truck as it leaves the Landfill. The net weight of the deposited trash and the required disposal fee is then calculated and printed on a receipt that is handed to the driver. Bribery Scheme According to his plea agreement, Nemec started working in 1984 for the DPW as a scale house cashier at the Cold Spring Lane Landfill. Back then, weight tickets were handwritten, and Nemec and other cashiers would regularly accept bribes from small and large haulers in lieu of charging disposal fees and then split the bribe money among all the cashiers. That same year, Nemec was transferred to the Quarantine Road Landfill (Landfill) where he engaged in the same type of bribery scheme. Except for short periods of time over the years since 1984, and despite the comings and goings of new scale house employees and supervisors at the Landfill, Nemec and other scale house operators continued to execute the bribery scheme until Nemec’s arrest on May 12, 2015, and even after he was promoted to a supervisory position at the Landfill in 2006. Beginning around 2002, Nemec executed the bribery scheme in tandem with two scale house operators, including Tamara Washington. Nemec and the scale house operators accepted $100 bribe payments from large haulers for each truckload of trash dumped at the Landfill, which saved the haulers many hundreds of dollars per trip to the Landfill. Nemec and others concealed the bribery scheme by not entering a truck’s registration number into the computerized scale system, which meant the transaction was not recorded. Consequently, the transaction would not appear on the scale house’s daily logs and the commercial hauler would not be billed for using the Landfill on that particular occasion. To maintain the pretense that the trucks had been weighed and the disposal fee paid, Nemec and others would hand the truck drivers fake or blank receipts when they crossed the outbound scale. In return, the commercial haulers either paid the $100 bribe through the outbound window at the scale house or met with Nemec or another scale house operator at an off-site location to pay a week’s worth of bribes or more. The commercial haulers always paid the $100 bribes in cash. By paying the $100 bribes in lieu of the disposal fees, these haulers saved their businesses thousands of dollars each month, which, in turn, cost the City of Baltimore more than $6 million in revenue. For example, from July 1, 2014 through May 1, 2015 alone, Nemec, while working as a supervisor at the Landfill, accepted on his own behalf, and on behalf of other DPW employees involved in the scheme, more than $15,000 in bribe payments from a commercial hauler in return for not charging the hauler or his company the required waste disposal fees, which totaled approximately $55,000 during that period of time. Nemec has agreed to pay restitution of $6 million. Illegal Junking Scheme In addition to the revenue generated by the collection of disposal fees, Baltimore City’s waste management system generates revenue by collecting and selling recyclable scrap metal dumped at the City’s trash collection facilities, including household appliances, steel cables, copper wires, car parts, computer parts, door and window frames. The City awards contracts to private salvage companies to purchase and remove such scrap metal from its trash collection facilities. DPW employees at the Landfill and other trash collection sites are required to segregate the recyclable scrap metal from general refuse and place it in separate bins provided by the salvage companies. The companies regularly pick up the scrap metal, weigh it and send a tonnage report to the City. Based on predetermined prices per ton, the City sends an invoice to the companies requesting payment for the value of the scrap metal the companies removed during a given period of time. Salvaging by employees, also referred to as “junking,” was strictly prohibited and employees were put on notice that any salvaging of metal constituted theft of City property. From 2005 until May 2015, Nemec and other Landfill employees falsely represented to the DPW that they were performing the jobs for which they were hired when in fact, they used their paid positions during work hours to unlawfully collect and sell scrap metal for personal gain. Employees under Nemec’s supervision paid him cash to conceal the illegal junking that occurred daily at the Landfill. Nemec knew that laborers at the Landfill used their personal cell phones to let each other know when and where recyclable scrap metals were being dumped at the Landfill. After collecting and creating piles of the scrap metal at various locations, the laborers would transport the scrap metal using their personal pick-up trucks to a private salvage company, frequently making multiple trips during a single, eight-hour work shift. The stolen scrap metal that they sold to the private salvage company for cash resulted in a loss of revenue to the City totaling hundreds of thousands of dollars. For the years 2011 and 2012, two laborers paid Nemec approximately $20 every day to allow them and others to collect and transport the stolen scrap metal. In addition to not reporting the daily trips to the salvage company to sell the stolen metal, which some days could take a total of 3—4 hours, Nemec would authorize and submit false time and attendance records to conceal the scheme, so that the laborers were able to be paid for work they did not perform while stealing the metal. Nemec faces a maximum sentence of five years in prison for the conspiracy and 10 years in prison for bribery. U.S. District Judge Marvin J. Garbis has scheduled sentencing for November 17, 2015 at 9:30 a.m. Former DPW employee Tamara Oliver Washington, age 55; and commercial haulers Mustafa Sharif, age 63, of Baltimore, and Adam Williams, Jr., age 52, of Randallstown, pleaded guilty in July 2015 to their participation in the bribery scheme. Washington is scheduled to be sentenced on October 20, 2015, Williams on October 21 and Sharif on November 6, 2015. Washington has agreed to pay restitution of $6 million. Sharif has agreed to forfeit and pay restitution of $500,000 and Williams has agreed to forfeit and pay restitution of $900,000. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI, IRS-CI, Baltimore Office of Inspector General and Maryland State Police for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant United States Attorney Martin J. Clarke, who is prosecuting the case.
corruption ATLANTA—George H. Bell, a former employee of the Georgia Department of Transportation, has been arraigned on federal charges of conspiracy and accepting bribes. Bell was indicted by a federal grand jury on August 11, 2015. “This defendant is charged with using his position with the Georgia Department of Transportation to benefit himself at the expense of the environment,” said U.S. Attorney John Horn. “His alleged conduct resulted in enormous clean-up costs to the Georgia Department of Transportation as well as environmental damage.” “The FBI places a high priority on public corruption based investigations because they often ignore due process put in place to protect others. This case involves allegations of a State of Georgia official accepting bribes as he ignored environment laws put in place to protect so many,” said J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office. “Corruption in state government will not be tolerated. This case is an excellent example of state and federal law enforcement working together to insure government employees who are corrupt are held accountable,” said Vernon Keenan, Director, Georgia Bureau of Investigation. “We are appalled by the corrupt actions of these lone individuals that in no way reflect the hard work and commitment displayed by more than 4,100 GDOT employees. We will exercise all legal actions to recover the costs associated with cleaning up these sites and ensure that every effort is made to correct the damage to the impacted sites once the investigation is closed,” said Commissioner Russell McMurry, Georgia Department of Transportation. According to U.S. Attorney Horn, the charges, and other information presented in court: Bell was a supervisor with the Georgia Department of Transportation. In 2014, he began soliciting and accepting cash payments in exchange for allowing various individuals to dump unsuitable dirt in several GDOT locations. Unsuitable dirt is dirt that is removed during construction or landscaping projects, and cannot be used for other projects, usually because it contains organic material that would decompose and create problems for building on top of it. Bell is alleged to have allowed the unauthorized dumping to occur on at least four different GDOT sites. George H. Bell, 49, of Lithonia, Ga., was arraigned before U.S. Magistrate Judge Alan J. Baverman. Members of the public are reminded that the indictment only contains charges. The defendant is presumed innocent of the charges and it will be the government’s burden to prove the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt at trial. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation Public Corruption Task Force, including the Georgia Bureau of Investigation and the Georgia Department of Transportation Investigation. Assistant U.S. Attorney Jamie L. Mickelson is prosecuting the case.
corruption LOS ANGELES—A former official with U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), who went on to operate an immigration consulting service, has been found guilty of participating in a scheme to pay bribes to current government employees to obtain “Green Cards” and citizenship for immigrants. George Wu, 62, of Pico Rivera, who worked as a CBP officer until early 2012, and then operated Great Eastern Immigration Services, was found guilty on Thursday of paying bribes in an effort to obtain citizenship and legal permanent resident status for several immigrants. Following a seven-day trial before United States District Judge Michael W. Fitzgerald, Wu was found guilty of conspiracy and five counts of bribery of a public official. Wu, another immigration consultant named Michael Bui and others solicited money from immigrants in exchange for help in obtaining benefits from U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) that included lawful permanent residence and citizenship. Some of the money paid by the immigrants was used to pay bribes to public officials in exchange for granting immigration benefits. During the trial, prosecutors presented evidence that Wu received and paid bribe money on behalf of immigrants. The overall conspiracy involved at least seven immigrants, one of whom was allowed to pass an English proficiency exam even though she could not speak English. The five substantive bribery counts that resulted in guilty verdicts relate to three cases. In the first case, an attorney who also works as an immigration consultant paid Wu $15,000, and Wu subsequently paid Bui $10,000, to secure assistance with a citizenship application. In the second case, Wu paid the attorney a total of $15,000 for assistance in securing legal permanent resident status—commonly called a Green Card—for an immigrant. And in the third case, Wu paid a total of $3,000 to an official with USCIS—an official who was acting in an undercover capacity as part of the investigation—for help in obtaining a Green Card for an immigrant. Wu is scheduled to be sentenced by Judge Fitzgerald on November 30. Wu faces a statutory maximum sentence of five years in prison for the conspiracy count and up to 15 years in prison for each of the five bribery charges. Bui pleaded guilty in May to conspiracy and bribery, and he is scheduled to be sentenced by Judge Fitzgerald on November 2. The case against Wu and Bui is part of an investigation by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s (ICE) Homeland Security Investigations Office of Professional Responsibility and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The investigation into corruption involving government officials and immigration consultants has resulted in charges against 11 defendants. Seven of those defendants—including Wu and Bui—have now been convicted, including: Attorney Kwang Man “John” Lee, who pleaded guilty in March to three counts of bribery and admitted, among other things, paying tens of thousands of bribes to a Senior Immigrations Services Officer with USCIS and arranging sham marriages to secure Green Cards for clients; James Dominguez, a former special agent with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), who pleaded guilty to making false statements to ICE investigators when he lied about accessing immigration files and providing information to an immigration lawyer; and Paul Lovingood, a former official with USCIS, who pleaded guilty to accepting an illegal gratuity from an immigration lawyer after adjudicating a petition for lawful permanent residence filed on behalf of one of the attorney’s clients.
corruption ATLANTA—Marion Rooks Boynton has been arraigned after being indicted by a federal grand jury for conspiring with former DeKalb County Commissioner Elaine Boyer and her husband John Boyer to steal over $85,000 from DeKalb County. “Boynton allegedly conspired with Elaine and John Boyer to steal taxpayer money from DeKalb County,” said U.S. Attorney John Horn. “The trio diverted thousands of dollars in county funds to their own personal bank accounts by exploiting former DeKalb County Commissioner Boyer’s position.” “Elected officials who violate the public trust remain a priority investigative matter for the FBI but those who entice or assist those public officials as they engage in their corrupt criminal conduct are equally subject to federal investigation and prosecution. The FBI asks that anyone with information regarding such activities to contact their nearest FBI field office,” said J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office. According to U.S. Attorney Horn, the charges, and other information presented in court: In DeKalb County, Georgia, the Board of Commissioners serves as the legislative branch of the DeKalb County Government. The Board of Commissioners is comprised of seven part-time commissioners, who are elected to serve four-year terms. Each of the seven Commissioners is responsible for the management of their respective offices, which includes controlling the offices’ budget and hiring staff members, contractors, and consultants. In recent years, the operating budget for a Commissioner’s office has been approximately $250,000 per year. The Commissioners may use their budget only for county-related business. In 1992, Elaine Boyer began serving as the Commissioner of District 1, which served citizens in north DeKalb County, including in Brookhaven, Dunwoody, Tucker, and Smoke Rise, Georgia. In 2009, Elaine Boyer and her husband John Boyer began experiencing financial difficulties. As a result, they became involved in an unlawful kickback scheme to obtain money from the DeKalb County government. In particular, in or about September 2009, Elaine Boyer, as the Commissioner of District 1, hired long-time, family friend Rooks Boynton as a purported political advisor, allegedly to assist her with government consulting. As part of the scheme, false invoices were submitted to Elaine Boyer’s office for services supposedly rendered by Boynton. In fact, Boynton performed no services for DeKalb County government, Elaine Boyer’s Office, or the citizens of DeKalb County. Elaine Boyer used the false invoices as a basis to authorize payments to Boynton. From September 2009 to November 2011, based on requisition requests from Elaine Boyer’s Office, DeKalb County issued approximately 35 checks to Boynton for consulting services that were never performed. In total, DeKalb County paid Boynton more than $85,000. Boynton then deposited a portion of the money that he received from DeKalb County into a bank account used by the Boyers. Specifically, after being paid by DeKalb County, Boynton funneled approximately $60,000 of funds from DeKalb County into a personal bank account used by the Boyers. Boynton kept and spent the rest of the approximately $25,000 that he received from DeKalb County—despite not performing any services for DeKalb County. In August 2014, Elaine Boyer, 59, of Stone Mountain, Georgia, resigned mid-term as the Commissioner of District 1. The day after resigning, Boyer was charged with conspiring to commit wire and mail fraud. On March 20, 2015, Boyer was sentenced to 14 months in prison and ordered to pay approximately $87,000 in restitution after pleading guilty. On February 24, 2015, John Boyer, 63, of Stone Mountain, Georgia, pleaded guilty to conspiring to commit mail fraud. Boyer is scheduled to be sentenced on August 19, 2015. On August 11, 2015, the Grand Jury returned an Indictment against Marion Rooks Boynton, 73, of Saint Simons Island, Georgia, on charges of conspiracy and substantive federal program theft. Members of the public are reminded that the indictment only contains charges. The defendant is presumed innocent of the charges and it will be the government’s burden to prove the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt at trial. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Jeffrey W. Davis is prosecuting the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Presse-mails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia is http://www.justice.gov/usao-ndga.
corruption WASHINGTON—A former regional director of SAP International Inc. pleaded guilty today to conspiracy to violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) by participating in a scheme to bribe Panamanian officials to secure the award of government technology contracts for SAP. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag of the Northern District of California, Special Agent in Charge George L. Piro of the FBI’s Miami Division and Acting Special Agent in Charge Thomas McMahon of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI) made the announcement. Vicente Eduardo Garcia, 65, of Miami, pleaded guilty to a one-count information charging him with conspiracy to violate the anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA. Sentencing before Senior U.S. District Court Judge Charles R. Breyer of the Northern District of California is scheduled for Dec. 16, 2015. According to plea documents, in late 2009, SAP sought a multi-million dollar contract to provide a Panamanian state agency with a technology upgrade package. In connection with his guilty plea, Garcia admitted that, to secure the contract, he conspired with others, including advisors and consultants to SAP, to pay bribes to two Panamanian government officials, as well as to the agent of a third government official (with the understanding that at least a portion of the money would be transmitted to the third official). According to Garcia’s admissions, the conspirators used sham contracts and false invoices to disguise the true nature of the bribes. Garcia further admitted that he believed paying such bribes was necessary to secure both the initial contract and additional Panamanian government contracts. Ultimately, SAP’s Panamanian channel partner secured the technology upgrade contract for $14.5 million, which included $2.1 million in SAP software licenses. Soon thereafter, the Panamanian government awarded SAP’s channel partner additional contracts that included the provision of SAP products. The investigation is being conducted by FBI and the IRS-CI. The Criminal Division’s Office of International Affairs and the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Division of Enforcement, which separately announced civil charges against Garcia, provided assistance. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Aisling O’Shea of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Adam A. Reeves of the Northern District of California. Additional information about the Justice Department’s FCPA enforcement efforts can be found at www.justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—Christopher Saravello, 38, of Philadelphia, PA, was sentenced today to 96 months in prison for a scheme to extort drugs and money from drug dealers and drug buyers while working as a Philadelphia Police Officer. Saravello pleaded guilty on February 6, 2015 to one count of conspiracy to commit Hobbs Act extortion and five counts of Hobbs Act extortion. Between November 2011 and June 2012, while employed as a Philadelphia Police Officer assigned to the 6th District, Saravello conspired with others to rob drug dealers and drug buyers of cash and Oxycontin and other controlled substances. Saravello’s co-conspirators would alert him to a drug transaction. Saravello would then interrupt the planned drug transaction, driving up in a marked police vehicle, wearing a police uniform, displaying an official badge and identification, or verbally identifying himself as a police officer. He then extorted drugs or money from his victims. In two extortions, Saravello used his personal car and, rather than wearing a full uniform, wore clothing identifying himself as a police officer. During one extortion, Saravello unholstered his weapon, pointed his gun at the victim, ordered the victim to stand against a wall and threatened to shoot him if the extortion demand was not complied with. Saravello seized the money or narcotics brought to the transaction by the buyer or seller victim and shared the seized proceeds with his co-conspirators. The scheme resulted in the illegal taking of more than $9,800 in drug money and quantities of Oxycontin and other narcotics. In addition to the prison term, U.S. District Court Judge Eduardo Robreno ordered three years of supervised release, and a $600 special assessment. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Philadelphia Police Department. It was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Arlene Fisk.
corruption U.S. Attorney Kenneth A. Polite announced that VANDALE THOMAS, age 41, a resident of Prairieville, was sentenced today after being convicted by a federal jury. U.S. District Judge Stanwood R. Duval, Jr. sentenced THOMAS to thirty-six months in federal prison followed by three years of supervised release to be served upon his release from prison. THOMAS was also ordered to make restitution in the amount of $684,065.53 to the City of New Orleans. According to court records, after a week-long jury trial in October 2014, the former Chief Financial Officer at New Orleans Traffic Court (“Traffic Court”) was convicted on all 11 counts of theft, money laundering, and structuring transactions to evade reporting requirements. THOMAS was found guilty of three counts of theft concerning programs receiving federal funds resulting from his employment at Traffic Court. Evidence presented at trial established that on November 24, 2008, THOMAS and his accounting firm, Thomas & Thomas Accounting Services, LLC, were hired by Traffic Court to provide accounting and bookkeeping services. THOMAS’s initial agreement with Traffic Court allowed him to bill at a rate of $75.00 an hour and his contract was not to exceed $75,000 for a twelve month period. THOMAS’s billings exceeded $75,000 within the first few months of his agreement. On six additional occasions between November 24, 2008, and April 13, 2011, THOMAS received written authorization from the City of New Orleans and Traffic Court to expand the amount that he could bill. In total, the City and Traffic Court authorizedTHOMAS to submit invoices and receive compensation for accounting services in an amount not to exceed $627,000. However, subsequent audits by the Louisiana Legislative Auditor’s Office and the Office of the Inspector General for the City of New Orleans, and an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation revealed that THOMAS submitted 174 invoices and was issued 173 checks totaling $1,311,065.53. THOMAS was also found guilty of three counts of laundering illegal funds obtained from Traffic Court. The jury found that on September 14 and September 24, 2010, THOMAS used illegally obtained money from Traffic Court to purchase casino chips in excess of $10,000 at a New Orleans casino and THOMASused illegally obtained money from Traffic Court to make a down payment on an $80,000 Bentley GT Coupe. Additionally, THOMAS was found guilty of five counts of structuring transactions to evade reporting requirements. According to the evidence and testimony presented during the trial, THOMAS used numerous bank branches in order to evade federal currency transaction reporting requirements. Specifically, THOMAS went to multiple bank locations in New Orleans and Baton Rouge to structure cash withdrawals in order to evade the currency transaction reporting requirement that all transactions over $10,000 be reported by financial institutions to the Internal Revenue Service. “Mr. Thomas has been brought to justice for defrauding our local courts and the City of New Orleans,” stated U.S. Attorney Polite. “Corruption – wherever it is found in Southeast Louisiana – will not be tolerated.” “The residents of New Orleans and the surrounding areas are fed up with seeing individuals like Thomas steal public funds to support their personal lifestyles of extravagance,” stated Jerome R. McDuffie, Special Agent in Charge, IRS – Criminal Investigations. “The court echoed that sentiment today with the sentence they imposed on Thomas for his actions against the citizens of this great city. IRS-CI will continue to aggressively pursue individuals who engage in the theft of public funds, and will seek to have them prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.” “Vandale Thomas’ defrauding of the New Orleans Traffic Court was first identified by the OIG as it conducted an evaluation of the Court in 2011,” stated New Orleans Inspector General Ed Quatrevaux. OIG investigators continued to work with our federal partners to bring Mr. Thomas to justice and secure restitution for the City.” U.S. Attorney Polite praised the work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigations Division, and the New Orleans Office of Inspector General in investigating this matter. Assistant United States Attorneys Brian M. Klebba, Matthew Payne, Marquest Meeks, and Andre Lagarde were in charge of the prosecution.
corruption HOUSTON—A former police officer has been charged with extortion under color of official right as well as making false statements to federal agents in relation to an armored car robbery that occurred in Houston in 2013, announced U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson. Joel Quezada, 33, of Houston, has been charged in a three-count indictment alleging he accepted money to monitor police radios during the robbery. He is also charged with making false statements and concealing materials facts from federal agents. The sealed indictment, returned Aug. 5, 2015, was unsealed last night upon his arrest. He is expected to make his initial appearance before U.S. Magistrate Judge Frances Stacy at 2:00 p.m. today. The indictment alleges that while employed as a full-time patrol officer with the Houston Police Department (HPD), Quezada accepted money to monitor his police radio during the course of a Loomis armored car robbery on Dec. 6, 2013. Upon questioning be law enforcement, he then allegedly lied about his involvement to federal agents. Quezada no longer works at HPD. If convicted, he faces up to 20 years in federal prison as well as a possible $10,000 maximum fine for the extortion charge, while making false statements and concealing material facts both carry a possible five-years prison term and fines up to $250,000. The investigation leading to the charges was conducted by the FBI and HPD—Internal Affairs Division. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Andrew Leuchtmann and Carolyn Ferko are prosecuting the case.
corruption SACRAMENTO, CA—Two defendants, including a DMV employee, pleaded guilty today to their roles in a conspiracy to sell Class A commercial driver’s licenses (CDLs) without the buyer having to take or pass the required tests, announced United States Attorney Benjamin B. Wagner; Tatum King, Acting Special Agent in Charge for Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) San Francisco; FBI Special Agent in Charge Monica M. Miller; and Frank Alvarez, Chief of Investigations Division, California Department of Motor Vehicles. Four more persons, including two other DMV employees, were charged in a 17‑count indictment unsealed Friday. According to court documents, between June 2011 and March 2015, three owners of truck driving schools acted as brokers who accepted money from individuals who wanted Class A CDL without having to take and pass the required written and behind-the-wheel driving tests. The brokers used the money to bribe DMV employees to access the DMV’s computer database to submit false information that the individuals had passed the tests. This resulted in the DMV issuing official driver’s licenses to individuals who were not qualified to receive such licenses. Emma Klem, 45, of Salinas, a DMV employee who worked in a Salinas DMV branch, and trucking school owner Kulwinder Dosanjh Singh, aka Sodhi Singh, 58, of Turlock, were charged earlier in separate criminal pleadings and entered guilty pleas this morning to conspiracy to commit bribery and to commit identity fraud. The indictment, returned Thursday and unsealed Friday, charges trucking school owners Pavitar Dosangh Singh, aka Peter Singh, 55, of Sacramento; and Mangal Gill, 55, of San Ramon; and DMV examiners Andrew Kimura, 30, of Sacramento; and Robert Turchin, 65, of Salinas, with conspiracy, bribery, and fraud in connection with identification documents. The indictment specifically references the involvement of Klem and Sodhi Singh. “Public corruption is always a high priority for the U.S. Department of Justice, but our mission is particularly crucial when the conduct not only violates the public trust, but endangers public safety,” said U.S. Attorney Wagner. “We depend on the Department of Motor Vehicles to keep the roads of this state safe, and individuals who undermine that function for personal gain must not expect leniency from the justice system. I am pleased that DMV Investigations worked so closely with FBI, HSI, and my office to expose and prosecute this conduct.” “These investigations and the criminal charges they produced send a very clear and loud message that the Department of Motor Vehicles takes fraud and illegal activity very seriously, and it is absolutely not tolerated,” stated Frank Alvarez, Chief Investigator, California Department of Motor Vehicles. “DMV has already taken action and cancelled or revoked a number of licenses that appear to have been obtained through fraudulent means. The department will continue to work with our federal partners to ensure that justice is served.” “Public corruption undermines the integrity of government, compromises safety, and damages our trust in public officials and employees,” said Special Agent in Charge Monica M. Miller of the FBI Sacramento field office. “The FBI is grateful for the collaboration of the California DMV and HSI during this complex, multi-year investigation. We are committed to working with our federal and state partners to identify and investigate public corruption at any level and urge the public to contact us with any information regarding corruption in government.” “This scheme enabled unqualified drivers to obtain licenses to operate all types of commercial vehicles,” said Tatum King, acting special agent in charge for HSI San Francisco. “The implications of putting untrained drivers behind the wheel in such cases is frankly chilling. HSI will continue to work closely with its federal and state law enforcement partners to target schemes like this that serve to enrich the perpetrators at the expense of the public’s safety.” In order to obtain a Class A CDL to operate a commercial truck, such as an 18-wheel cargo truck, applicants must pass both a written test, which is offered in many DMV locations including Sacramento, and a behind-the-wheel test that is offered in a limited number of DMV locations including Salinas. The charges announced today are the result of investigations conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Homeland Security Investigations (HSI), and DMV Investigations which originated separately, but which combined in the course of the investigation. The indictment charges three conspiracies. The first began in approximately June 2011 and involved Kimura, Peter Singh, and Gill, who conspired with Klem and Sodhi Singh to obtain Class A CDLs for individuals who had not taken or passed the necessary DMV examinations in return for the payment of money to employees of the DMV (bribery), and to produce identification documents without lawful authority (ID fraud). The indictment alleges that Kimura was a Licensing Registration Examiner who worked in the DMV’s office in Sacramento. He processed applications for Class A and Class B commercial and Class C non‑commercial driver’s licenses. Peter Singh owned and operated a truck driving school in Sacramento and acted as a broker to assist individuals in obtaining Class A, Class B, and Class C driver’s licenses. Gill owned and operated trucking schools in Fremont, Lathrop, Fresno, and Salinas and acted as a broker to assist individuals in obtaining Class A, Class B, or Class C licenses. Sodhi Singh owned and operated a truck-driving school in Turlock and also acted as a broker to assist individuals in obtaining Class A, Class B, and Class C licenses. Klem was a Motor Vehicle Representative who worked in the DMV’s office in Salinas. Part of her job duties included processing applications for Class A, Class B, and Class C licenses. The second alleged conspiracy to commit bribery and ID fraud involved Gill, Klem, and DMV employee Robert Turchin, who was a Licensing-Registration Examiner working at the DMV facility in Salinas. According to the indictment, from July 2012 until April 2015, Gill acted as a broker for individuals who desired to obtain Class A or Class B CDLs without taking the requisite DMV examinations. He paid Turchin and Klem and other DMV employees to alter DMV records so that Class A and Class B CDLs would be issued to individuals who were not qualified to receive such licenses. According to the indictment, the third conspiracy began in April 2013 and continued until July 2015 in Sacramento. It is alleged that Peter Singh paid money to Kimura to access the DMV’s computer database and alter individuals’ electronic DMV records to fraudulently and incorrectly indicate that applicants had passed examinations for Class C licenses, had passed the written examination for Class A CDLs, or had fulfilled the requirements for a Class A or Class B CDL renewal. These incorrect and fraudulent entries in the DMV database caused the DMV to issue licenses to unqualified individuals. As part of the guilty pleas entered this morning, Sodhi Singh admitted accepting money to bribe DMV employees to obtain CDLs for individuals, and DMV employee Emma Klem admitting changing DMV data to indicate that those individuals had passed behind-the-wheel tests, when in fact they had never appeared to take the test. Court documents indicate that the number of CDLs issued as a result of the scheme could number over 100. The investigation is continuing. DMV has already cancelled or revoked a number of licenses that appear to have been fraudulently procured, and will be reviewing the evidence to determine what additional actions may be appropriate. These cases are the product of investigations by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s (ICE) Homeland Security Investigations (HSI), the California Department of Motor Vehicles’ Investigations Division, Office of Internal Affairs. Assistant United States Attorneys Todd Pickles and Rosanne L. Rust are prosecuting the cases. Klem and Sodhi Singh are scheduled to be sentenced on November 17, 2015. They face a maximum statutory penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine for each count. The actual sentences, however, will be determined at the discretion of the court after consideration of any applicable statutory factors and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, which take into account a number of variables. Peter Singh and Andrew Kimura were arraigned on August 7, 2015, and entered pleas of not guilty. Turchin and Gill are scheduled to be arraigned on Friday, August 14, 2015. If convicted, the defendants face a maximum statutory penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine for each count. Any sentence, however, would be determined at the discretion of the court after consideration of any applicable statutory factors and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, which take into account a number of variables. The charges are only allegations; the defendant is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption LOUISVILLE, KY—Former Hillview, Kentucky Police Chief Glenn A. Caple was sentenced today in U.S. District Court, by Senior District Judge Charles R. Simpson III, to 24 months’ probation and ordered to pay a $5000.00 fine for making a false statement to federal agents when questioned about his knowledge and involvement in moving evidence found on an elected official’s property on January 4, 2012, announced U.S. Attorney John E. Kuhn, Jr. Caple was unanimously convicted by a jury that deliberated just over one hour before reaching a guilty verdict on February 13, 2015. During the four-day trial, the United States successfully proved that Caple lied to federal agents on April 26, 2012, when he was questioned by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) about his involvement in directing subordinate Hillview Police officers to move evidence. The evidence was a mobile meth lab inside a backpack. Caple ordered the backpack moved from its original location at the residence of the Hillview mayor, but in an interview with FBI agents, he denied that the suspected backpack had been found by Hillview police on the mayor’s property and that he had asked a Hillview officer to move it off of the property. Hillview, Kentucky is a city of approximately 9,400 residents located in Bullitt County, Kentucky near Jefferson County. Hillview police officers testified under oath that a mobile meth lab in a black backpack was found in a tire next to a garage on the mayor’s property. They further testified that Chief Caple asked a Hillview police officer to move the backpack to a location believed to be off of the mayor’s property and failed to report the incident, in order to protect the mayor from bad publicity. This case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Thomas Dyke and Marisa Ford and was investigated by the Louisville field office of the FBI.
corruption LAFAYETTE, LA—United States Attorney Stephanie A. Finley announced today that a Carencro Police officer was sentenced to 18 months in prison for receiving cash payments from James Panos, former owner and manager of Desperado’s Cabaret, while the officer was in charge of regulating exotic dancer permits for the Carencro Police Department, and during a time Desperado’s operated as an illegal enterprise. Timothy Prejean, 42, of Carencro, La., was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Richard T. Haik on one count of interference with commerce by extortion under color of official right. He was also sentenced to three years of supervised release. According to evidence presented at the March 25, 2015 guilty plea, Prejean accepted cash payments from James Panos during the years Prejean processed and delivered exotic dancer licenses for Desperado’s employees. Additionally, Prejean failed to investigate reported illegal activity at Desperado’s from 2007 to December 5, 2012. The illegal activity involved prostitution in the VIP room and drug distribution/use inside the business. During this time, Prejean was assigned as the liaison officer between the Carencro Police Department and Desperado’s for the purpose of enforcing local ordinances pertaining to exotic dancer licensing and related regulations. Prejean improperly received a total of $10,000 in cash and other benefits from club owners James and Jennifer Panos while in performance of his regulatory duties. Other benefits included no cover charge to enter, free access to the VIP rooms, and free drinks. James Panos, Jennifer Panos, and eight other defendants were charged in a 10-count indictment on May 15, 2013, alleging racketeering conspiracy, drug conspiracy, and firearms charges. The charges are the result of an investigation of drug trafficking, drug distribution, prostitution and other illegal activity that took place at Desperado’s Cabaret in Carencro located on Northeast Evangeline Thruway. “Timothy Prejean took cash payment from a corrupt business, and in the process let down the police department and the community that he took an oath to serve,” Finley stated. “The people of Carencro deserve and expect more from their law enforcement officers. My office will continue to investigate all allegations of public corruption.” James Panos, Jennifer Panos and the remaining defendants were sentenced on August 7, 2014. As part of the plea agreement, the owners agreed to forfeit illegal proceeds already seized, return proceeds illegally earned, and they agreed to forfeit the Desperado’s property to include the building and land. The DEA, FBI, U.S. Department of Homeland Security Investigations, Louisiana State Police, and Lafayette Metro Narcotics investigated the case. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Myers P. Namie and Daniel J. McCoy prosecuted the case.
corruption Preet Bharara, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, announced that NORAMIE JASMIN, the former mayor of Spring Valley in Rockland County, was sentenced today in federal court in White Plains to four years in prison for fraud and extortion, charges that stemmed from her misuse of her position as mayor in an effort to enrich herself. JASMIN negotiated a 50% stake in a development company and $5,000 cash for herself in exchange for her use of her office to obtain land and various government approvals to construct a community center in Spring Valley. JASMIN was convicted in April after a one-week bench trial before U.S. District Judge Colleen McMahon, who imposed today’s sentence. Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said: “By abusing her position as mayor for her own personal gain, Noramie Jasmin betrayed the trust the people of Spring Valley put in her. As the conviction and prison sentence today make clear, we do not accept public corruption in New York as the status quo. I would like to thank our partners at the FBI, the Rockland County District Attorney’s Office, and the Spring Valley Police Department for their excellent work in this important case.” According to the evidence presented at trial, the Indictment, and the Complaint: NORAMIE JASMIN was sworn in as Mayor of the Village of Spring Valley, New York in December 2009. From September 2011 through April 2013, JASMIN accepted cash and other benefits from an undercover FBI agent (the “UC”) and a witness cooperating with the Government (the “CW”) on multiple occasions in exchange for official acts. The scheme centered on the development of a community center in the Village of Spring Valley whose construction costs were expected to be at least $12 million. In exchange for her vote in favor of the sale of land owned by Spring Valley to a company she believed was controlled by the UC, JASMIN demanded a secret ownership stake in the company. JASMIN also asked for an advance on her profits from the scheme and accepted a $5,000 cash payment from the CW. In support of the scheme, JASMIN directed the UC to find people to pose as bidders for the project so that the transaction would appear legitimate to the other members of the Spring Valley Board of Trustees who were to, and did, vote on the sale. Over the course of two days, JASMIN met the UC, together with two other undercover FBI agents posing as straw bidders (the “Straw Bidders”), in hotel rooms and instructed the Straw Bidders on how to make a presentation before the Spring Valley Board of Trustees such that the Straw Bidders would lose their purported bids on the land sale. JASMIN then presided over the presentations made by the company in which she had a secret financial stake and the fake presentations that she had helped prepare. The following day, JASMIN presided over a Village Board of Trustees meeting, during which she asked the Board for permission to negotiate the sale of Village land to the UC’s company and then voted a “strong yes” to grant herself that permission. When questioned as to why the Board needed to vote to grant her that permission, JASMIN remarked that she “cannot sit behind closed doors with a developer to negotiate on behalf of the Board.” The evidence showed that that was precisely what she did; she sat behind closed doors and negotiated a financial stake for herself in the days preceding the vote. * * * In addition to her prison sentence, JASMIN, 51, of Spring Valley, New York, was sentenced to three years of supervised release and ordered to pay $15,000 in restitution of her salary and to forfeit $5,000. JASMIN was ordered to surrender to the Bureau of Prisons on November 2. Mr. Bharara praised the outstanding investigative work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Rockland County District Attorney’s Office, and Chief Paul Modica and the Spring Valley Police Department. This case is being handled by the Office’s White Plains Division and Public Corruption Unit. Assistant United States Attorneys Douglas B. Bloom and Jessica K. Feinstein are in charge of the prosecution. Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption A Miami-Dade Police Department officer pled guilty to participating in a wire fraud scheme, arising out of the operation of a series of credit repair businesses. Wifredo A. Ferrer, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office, and J.D. Patterson, Director, Miami-Dade Police Department (MDPD), made the announcement. Miami-Dade Police Officer George Price, 42, of Miami-Dade, pled guilty to conspiracy to commit wire fraud, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1349, an offense punishable by up to twenty years in prison. According to court documents, including the stipulated proffer, Price and his co-conspirators participated in a scheme to provide false police reports to individuals operating credit repair businesses. A co-conspirator would provide Price with identifying information of credit business customers. Price would then create false police reports, using the customers’ identifying information. The police reports would falsely represent that the customers had reported to the Miami-Dade Police Department facts consistent with having been victims of identity theft. Price would cause the false police reports to become official records of the Miami-Dade Police Department. A member of the conspiracy would cause the false police reports created by Price to be transmitted to credit reporting agencies in order to induce the removal of negative items from the credit histories of the alleged victims identified in the false police reports. Price created the false police reports in order to promote the success of the credit businesses and in return would receive payment from his co-conspirators. “Law enforcement officers have a duty to protect and serve the public. Instead, George Price betrayed his badge in order to enrich himself unjustly. Our Office remains vigilant in its efforts to track down and root out official corruption,” stated U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer. “George Price was a police officer who participated in a wire fraud scheme wherein he provided false police reports in exchange for payment. This unacceptable behavior only serves to tarnish the reputation of the overwhelming majority of police officers who serve their communities faithfully and well every day,” said George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Miami. “The FBI operates the Miami Area Corruption Task Force to root out this type of activity.” Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI Miami Area Corruption Task Force and MDPD Professional Compliance Bureau. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael Davis. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Southern District of Florida at www.flsd.uscourts.gov or on http://pacer.flsd.uscourts.gov.
corruption BATON ROUGE, LA—United States Attorney Walt Green announced today that a federal grand jury has indicted RANDY ANNY (ANNY), age 51, and BARBARA FALGOUST ANNY (FALGOUST), age 51, both of Sorrento, Louisiana, with conspiracy and wire fraud in connection with a claim made to the Gulf Coast Claims Facility in the aftermath of the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill. If convicted, each defendant faces incarceration, fines, restitution, and supervised release following imprisonment. The Indictment alleges that from in or about November 2010 through in or about June 2011, ANNY and FALGOUST engaged in a scheme to profit from a fraudulent claim submitted to the Gulf Coast Claims Facility or “GCCF,” an administrative entity that BP Exploration and Production, Inc. established to process damage claims resulting from the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill in the Gulf of Mexico. According to the allegations contained in the Indictment, between November and December 2010, ANNYand FALGOUST submitted a fraudulent claim to the GCCF which represented that ANNY’s 26 foot boat had been damaged by the Oil Spill while located in Grand Isle, Louisiana. In support of the claim, ANNYand FALGOUST submitted a repair invoice which fraudulently reflected that ANNY had paid a company $7,800 in cash to repair specific items on his boat and boat trailer. As a result of the fraudulent claim, the GCCF wired $7,800 to a bank account controlled by ANNY and FALGOUST in June 2011. This ongoing investigation and prosecution is being handled by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of Louisiana, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Ascension Parish Sherriff’s Office. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Chris Dippel and Alan Stevens, who serve as Deputy Chiefs of the Criminal Division. This case was brought as part of this District’s partnership with the National Center for Disaster Fraud (NCDF), a nationwide initiative to protect available funds and assistance for those victims of both natural and man-made disasters such as hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, and the recent Gulf oil spill. If you have knowledge of fraud, waste, abuse, or allegations of mismanagement involving disaster relief operations, you can contact the NCDF by either calling the hotline at(866) 720-5721, faxing(225) 334-4707, e-mailing at disaster@leo.gov. NOTE: An indictment is an accusation by the Grand Jury. A defendant is presumed innocent until and unless adjudicated guilty at trial or through a guilty plea.
corruption U.S. Attorney Maurice Milligan, Western District of Missouri, played a critical role in helping to uncover the crimes of Kansas City political fixer Tom Pendergast and his organization in the 1930s. High res image Byte Out of History FBI Involvement in Early Election Fraud Case in Kansas City 08/06/15 Impartial and fair elections are the cornerstone of any democracy, and the FBI has a long history of investigating illegal activities that harm the elective process. One of our earliest investigations involved Kansas City political fixer Tom Pendergast, who was threatened by the basic workings of democratic elections—in particular, by any election that didn’t go his way. In the 1920s and 1930s, Pendergast, a former alderman, ran the political machine that controlled the electoral choices in Kansas City, Missouri, and he got rich in the process. Because of Pendergast’s corrupt activities—including voter fraud and bribery—Kansas City became known as an open city where gangsters moved freely and prostitution, gambling, and drug enterprises flourished. And, of course, election fraud flourished as well, along with its accompanying scare tactics. The 1934 primary election in Kansas City had been so violent that it became known as the “Bloody Election,” with thugs connected to the Pendergast machine committing acts of violence and intimidation against opponents and voters across the city. The fraudulent reporting of election results was even more damaging to the democratic process—precincts returned astronomical participation rates. Vote totals for machine candidates (Pendergast’s picks) even exceeded the total population in several wards and precincts. Tired of Pendergast’s tight-fisted control of their city, a coalition of his opponents banded together for 1936 municipal elections and attempted to throw Pendergast’s supporters out of office. But that was not to be, at least not right away. For the spring primary, fraud appeared to be the order of the day. U.S. Attorney Maurice Milligan of the Western District of Missouri later wrote that in one city ward, the vote ratio was 1,045 to 1, and in another, the ratio was 1,469 to 1—both in favor of the machine candidates. The sheer size of the margins suggested a serious problem. In anticipation of the 1936 general election in the fall, Milligan called for a grand jury to convene and began to gather information. A federal judge from the district agreed, saying that there was “a crying need for the purification of the ballot in America” and authorizing Milligan to seize electoral records after the counts were submitted to investigate possible fraud. It would be the U.S. Marshals’ job to gather and secure the evidence and the FBI’s job to help analyze this voluminous material and collect additional evidence in the case. Charles Appel, founder of the Bureau’s Technical Laboratory On election morning, the Pendergast political machine was out in full force. Voting proceeded throughout the day and election officials tallied, recorded, reported, and sealed the records as they were supposed to. But at that point, the U.S. Marshals stepped in and claimed the records under grand jury warrant. By 8 p.m. that night, truckloads of ballots and other records—12 tons worth—were carted to the federal building in Kansas City and FBI agents began to examine them. FBI Agent Charles Appel, the founder of the Bureau’s Technical Laboratory, was point man, as his expertise was forensic document examination. The first bag opened revealed that at least 95 ballots had been tampered with. Further analysis showed such fraud and other tinkering were systemic. The first federal indictments for voter fraud were leveled in January 1937, and by the middle of 1938, 242 people had either pled guilty or been convicted at trial. Of those who chose to go to trial, they were convicted by juries of their peers—who perhaps were sending a message that corruption would no longer be tolerated in Kansas City. Of course, Pendergast himself appeared unscathed at first, but his political machine was severely damaged. And these first cracks in his organization led to other challenges to his rule. Eventually, agents of the Internal Revenue Service were able to gather evidence against Pendergast on tax evasion charges related to a large kickback he had received, and the boss’ rule was ended by a guilty plea and a stint in the Leavenworth federal penitentiary. Resources: - FBI efforts against election crimes today
corruption KANSAS CITY, KS—A prison guard was indicted Wednesday on a federal charge of accepting bribes to smuggle tobacco to inmates at the U.S. Penitentiary in Leavenworth, U.S. Attorney Barry Grissom said today. Michael Harston, 52, Kansas City, Mo., was charged with one count of conspiracy to commit bribery and four counts of accepting bribes. The indictment alleges that from October 2013 to August 2014 Harston took bribes to carry tobacco, which is contraband, into the penitentiary. The indictment alleges payment was made via wire transfers from inmates’ relatives. Harston was caught on video surveillance in the process of distributing tobacco to inmates. If convicted, he faces a maximum penalty of five years in federal prison and a fine up to $250,000 on the conspiracy charge, and a maximum penalty of 15 years and a fine up to $250,000 on each of the bribery counts. The FBI investigated. Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Leena Ramana is prosecuting. OTHER GRAND JURY INDICTMENTS Justin A. Jacks, 26, Wichita, Kan., is charged with two counts of distributing child pornography and one count of possession of child pornography. The crimes are alleged to have occurred in May and July 2015, in Wichita. If convicted, he faces a penalty of not less than five years and not more than 20 years and a fine up to $250,000 on each distribution county, and a maximum penalty of 10 years and a fine up to $250,000 on the possession charge. Homeland Security Investigations and the Wichita Police Department’s Internet Crimes Against Children (ICAC) Task Force investigated. Assistant U.S. Attorney Jason Hart is prosecuting. Cruz Lopez-Perez, 39, a citizen of Guatemala, is charged with one count of unlawfully re-entering the United States after being deported. He was found July 26, 2015, in Sedgwick County, Kan. If convicted, he faces a maximum penalty of two years in federal prison and a fine up to $250,000. The Kansas Department of Revenue and Homeland Security Investigations investigated. Assistant U.S. Attorney Brent Anderson is prosecuting. Luis Antonio Garcia-Gomez, 25, a citizen of Mexico, is charged with one count of unlawfully re-entering the United States after being deported. He was found July 28, 2015, in Sedgwick County, Kan. If convicted, he faces a maximum penalty of two years in federal prison and a fine up to $250,000. The Kansas Department of Revenue and Homeland Security Investigations investigated. Assistant U.S. Attorney Brent Anderson is prosecuting. Cortez I. Mumford, 41, Kansas City, Kan., is charged with one count of unlawful possession of a firearm following a felony conviction. The crime is alleged to have occurred July 20, 2015, in Kansas City, Kan. If convicted, he faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in federal prison and a fine up to $250,000. The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives investigated. Assistant U.S. Attorney Terra Morehead is prosecuting. In all cases, defendants are presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty. The indictments merely contain allegations of criminal conduct.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—Francisco Acosta, 39, of Reading, PA, pleaded guilty today to an information charging him with conspiracy to commit bribery offenses, announced United States Attorney Zane David Memeger. At the time of the offense and until this morning, Acosta was the President of Reading City Council. Certain anti-corruption statutes were enacted in Reading, PA, to limit the influence of money on political candidates and public officials. Section 1012 of Reading’s Code of Ethics establishes limits on campaign contributions to candidates seeking public office in Reading and Section 1006(H) of the Code prohibits the awarding of “no-bid contracts” to donors who have given campaign contributions in excess of those limits. During the guilty plea hearing, Acosta admitted the following: In the spring of 2015, Acosta conspired with a person identified as “Public Official #1” to repeal these restrictions before the May 19, 2015 primary election through a bribery scheme, in violation of federal criminal law. Public Official #1 was a Reading public official who had the power to sign into law ordinances that had been passed by City Council. Public Official #1 was also a candidate in the Democratic Party’s primary election, scheduled for May 19, 2015. Public Official #1 decided to offer Acosta an $1,800 “loan” to the campaign committee of Acosta’s ally ( “Public Official #2”), which would be “forgiven” upon Acosta successfully orchestrating a repeal of Sections 1012 and 1006(H). Acosta accepted the payment on April 10, 2015 and then, three days later, introduced legislation to eliminate certain restrictions in the Code of Ethics in accordance with Public Official #1’s wishes (“the repeal bill”). As agreed to by Public Official #1 and Acosta, the repeal bill would have repealed Section 1012 in its entirety, thereby eliminating the restrictions on campaign contributions and nullifying Section 1006(H)’s prohibition on awarding “no-bid contracts” to certain donors. To conceal his participation in the scheme, Public Official #1 sought to finance any campaign contributions to Public Official #2 with funding from third parties. Public Official #1 also sought to offer Acosta additional funding for the campaign committee of Public Official #2 as a reward for Acosta successfully orchestrating the passage of the repeal bill, although only a single payment—an $1,800 check payable to the campaign of Public Official #2 (“the bribe check”)—was ever provided to Acosta. When Acosta took possession of the bribe check, he agreed that, in order to avoid scrutiny of his agreement with Public Official #1, neither Acosta nor Public Official #2 would deposit the bribe check until a later date. Acosta attempted to persuade other members of City Council to pass the repeal bill before the primary election by falsely asserting that he was motivated solely by the best financial interests of Reading and by concealing that he had received the bribe check. Then, on April 21, 2015, Acosta made materially false statements to FBI agents who were investigating the bribery scheme. Acosta falsely denied that he had accepted a bribery offer from Public Official #1 and that he had ever possessed or received the bribe check. In fact, as Acosta well knew, he had previously agreed to Public Official #1’s bribery offer and still had possession of the bribe check at the time of his false statements to the agents. Within 24 hours of his interview with FBI agents on April 21, 2015, Acosta took affirmative steps to withdraw from the conspiracy, all without alerting other members of the conspiracy of the FBI’s inquiry into this matter. Acosta then met with the government at his earliest opportunity in order to accept responsibility for his wrongdoing. Acosta subsequently absented himself from the vote on the repeal bill, which was defeated unanimously by the remaining members of Reading City Council. “Elected officials have an obligation to provide their constituents with honest services,” said Memeger. “When officials sell their services, particularly to repeal anti-corruption legislation, as Acosta admitted here, they do tremendous damage to the integrity of our governmental system. This office remains committed to investigating and prosecuting public corruption at all levels of government.” “When government officials agree to sell their services, they betray their constituents who rightfully expect high ethical standards,” said FBI Special Agent-in-Charge William F. Sweeney. “The FBI will continue to aggressively investigate allegations of public corruption, and work with our partners to ensure that those who violate their obligation to the public are held accountable.” After accepting Acosta’s guilty plea, U.S. District Court Judge Juan R. Sanchez scheduled a sentencing hearing for November 18, 2015. Acosta faces a maximum possible sentence of five years in prison, a fine of up to $250,000, three years of supervised release, and a $100 special assessment. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Joe Khan and Nancy Beam Winter. An Indictment is an accusation. A defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption The FBI announces the arrest of Kevin Ryan Lumpkin, age 29, for knowingly selling firearms to felons, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 922(d)(1). The complaint affidavit supporting the arrest warrant indicates Kevin Lumpkin was a North Randall police officer at the time he purchased firearms for two individuals. It is alleged that Lumpkin knew that these two individuals could not purchase the weapons on their own because of their felony convictions. In August 2012, a search of the residence of these convicted felons by a local police department resulted in firearms and boxes of firearms being recovered. Those firearms and firearm boxes were traced to purchases made by Lumpkin. A traffic stop made on a suspect driving a vehicle with expired license plate tags resulted in a .380 caliber Ruger pistol being recovered. The suspect was taken into custody for an outstanding warrant. The pistol recovered had been purchased by Lumpkin. A complaint is only a charge and is not evidence of guilt. The defendant is entitled to a fair trial in which it will be the government’s burden to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. Any questions regarding this news release can be directed to SA Vicki D Anderson at the Cleveland Office of the FBI at (216) 522-1400 or Vicki.Anderson@ic.fbi.gov.
corruption WASHINGTON—A federal jury in Huntsville, Alabama, convicted Huntsville Police Department Officer Brett Russell, 48, of deprivation of rights under color of law for assaulting and injuring G.H., a detainee, as well as obstruction of justice for filing a false police report regarding this incident. According to the evidence presented at trial, on Dec. 23, 2011, G.H. was detained in the rear of a police vehicle parked in a hotel parking lot. After initially uttering profanity and kicking a rear window, G.H. sat handcuffed, compliant and nonresisting for approximately 30 minutes. As officers attempted to remove G.H. from the vehicle to place leg shackles on him, Russell yanked G.H. from the vehicle. While G.H. was lying handcuffed on the ground, the defendant repeatedly punched and kneed G.H. Other officers placed leg shackles on G.H. and Russell then transported G.H. to the Madison County, Alabama, Jail. When the jail refused to accept G.H. because of his injuries, Russell transported G.H.to the Huntsville Hospital. Russell subsequently wrote and submitted a false report claiming that G.H. tried to kick and head butt the officers. Further, Russell omitted from the false report any reference to the fact that he had used force on G.H. Russell faces a statutory maximum sentence of 10 years in prison for the civil rights charge and a statutory maximum sentence of 20 years for the obstruction charge. Sentencing has yet to be scheduled, but will occur before U.S. District Court Judge Abdul K. Kallon in the Northern District of Alabama. “The criminal behavior of this officer undermines the dedicated efforts of the vast majority of officers who serve honorably,” said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta, head of the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division. “The Justice Department is committed to holding officers who engage in such criminal acts accountable.” “Most police officers honor their oaths, day in and day out, to uphold the law and protect the public, but this defendant disgraced his badge and used excessive force against a man in handcuffs,” said U.S. Attorney Joyce White Vance of the Northern District of Alabama. “Today’s verdict reflects that abusing the authority of a police badge is a serious crime and it will be punished accordingly. My office remains committed to aggressive civil rights enforcement, and I thank the FBI for its dedication to investigating and compiling evidence in these type of cases. “ This case is being investigated by the FBI’s Florence Resident Agency. It is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Carroll McCabe of the Civil Rights Division and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Daniel Fortune and Xavier O. Carter Sr. of the Northern District of Alabama.
corruption Former Miami-Dade Police Department Public Service Aide and the owner of a tow truck company were charged in an illegal bribery and kickback scheme. Wifredo A. Ferrer, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, FBI, Miami Field Office, and J.D. Patterson, Director, Miami-Dade Police Department (MDPD), made the announcement. Matthew Valdes Perez, 29, and Lazaro Garcia, 31, are charged with conspiring to violate the Hobbs Act, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1951(a), an offense which carries a statutory maximum sentence of 20 years’ imprisonment. Valdes and Garcia are also charged with accepting, or paying, bribes concerning a local governmental agency receiving federal funds, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 666(a)(1)(B) and 666(a)(2), which carry a maximum sentence of 10 years’ imprisonment. According to the facts alleged in the complaint, in August 2014, a confidential source (CS) told investigating FBI agents that Lazaro Garcia, the owner and operator of a tow truck company, had been receiving kickbacks from the CS and paying bribes to a MDPD Public Service Aide (PSA). The FBI subsequently corroborated the CS’s allegations during a series of recorded meetings between the CS, MDPD PSA Matthew Valdes, and Garcia. During those recordings, Garcia admitted paying Valdes for accident information which, in turn, Garcia would use to illegally solicit stranded drivers for business. Both Valdes and Garcia were recorded on multiple occasions participating in the illegal towing scheme. The complaint further alleges that in order to further document the illicit relationship between Garcia and Valdes, the CS asked Garcia if he knew anyone who could collect confidential information regarding accident victims. The CS indicated he knew a corrupt chiropractor who would use the confidential information to illegally solicit the accident victims for business. Garcia suggested PSA Valdes. Between September 2014 and October 2014, Valdes accessed and collected the confidential personal information of dozens of accident victims from MDPD databases. Valdes and Garcia sold this information to the CS, in return for $4200 in cash payments. Those transactions were also recorded. In January 2015, Valdes was interviewed by the FBI and confessed to his part in the various kickback schemes. Valdes admitted receiving more than $10,000 worth of bribes from Garcia between January 2014 and January 2015. Valdes also admitted receiving bribes from the CS for his role in the plot to steal accident victim’s personal information for use by the corrupt doctor. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI Miami Area Corruption Task Force and the MDPD Internal Affairs Professional Compliance Bureau. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Anthony Lacosta. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Southern District of Florida at www.flsd.uscourts.gov or on http://pacer.flsd.uscourts.gov.
corruption Special Agent in Charge Howard S. Marshall of the FBI’s Louisville Division, joined by John E. Kuhn, Jr. United States Attorney for the Western District of Kentucky, and Kerry B. Harvey, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky, announced today a new initiative designed to solicit the public’s help in identifying public corruption within our community. The initiative includes the launch of a new, toll-free tip line (844) KYNOPC1 (596-6721), a billboard campaign, and a dedicated e-mail address Kentucky_PC_Complaints@ic.fbi.gov. Public corruption is the FBI’s top criminal priority because it undermines the public’s trust in our government. A 2014 study by Harvard University’s Center for Ethics identified Kentucky as one of the most corrupt states in the country. In fact, in Kentucky between 2003 and 2012, approximately 300 individuals were convicted of federal crimes related to public corruption. It is a violation of federal law for any federal, state, or local government official to receive anything of value in exchange for or because of an official act. While the vast majority of public officials in Kentucky are dedicated and honest, SAC Marshall stressed “there is simply no acceptable level of corruption.” “Public corruption victimizes everyone—taxpayers, voters, communities,” stated U.S. Attorney John Kuhn. “Public officials, whether elected or appointed, are more than mere employees. They are servants of the public interest, and we must insist on absolute honesty, integrity and trustworthiness from every one. The U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Western District of Kentucky will continue working with our law enforcement partners to ensure crimes involving public corruption are prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.” U.S. Attorney Kerry Harvey agreed stating, “Public corruption is a terribly destructive force throughout Kentucky and has been a particularly pernicious problem in certain areas of the Eastern District of Kentucky. While the overwhelming majority of public officials serve honorably, those who corrupt the operations of government rob their communities-their friends and neighbors-of the fundamental right to honest government. We are pleased to continue our longstanding partnership with the FBI as we work together to combat this statewide problem.” In a few short months, Kentucky will go to the polls for significant state-wide elections with a national election looming in 2016. SAC Marshall noted, “There is simply no greater right than to elect our political leaders. Anyone attempting to corrupt this process will be investigated as a top priority for our office.” This year also presents a new opportunity for our state government to partner with the FBI to address a potential, long term problem. For the first time ever, audits for Special Purpose Government Entities will be due in September. The FBI will work with the Kentucky Auditor of Public Accounts to identify individuals who have violated the public’s trust and misused SPGE funds. The FBI relies on our federal, state, and local partners to address corruption matters, but concerned citizens are our biggest asset when it comes to exposing officials who use their positions for personal gain. As a result, the Louisville Division has set up the following hotline and e-mail address seeking the public’s assistance in combating public corruption: toll-free: (844) KYNOPC1 (596-6721) e-mail: Kentucky_PC_Complaints@ic.fbi.gov You will also see billboards around the state bearing this number and e-mail address. SAC Marshall noted, “The End Corruption Now campaign seeks to unite the commonwealth in the fight against corruption at every level, from the proverbial dog catcher, to the police officer, to the highest state and federal officials in the commonwealth.”
corruption The former Police Chief of the Swinomish Tribe pleaded guilty today in U.S. District Court in Seattle to theft of tribal funds, announced United States Attorney Annette L. Hayes. THOMAS J. SCHLICKER, 57, of Stanwood, Washington, served as the Swinomish Police Chief from 1997 until September 2014, when his employment was terminated. SCHLICKER admits he stole more than $30,000 that belonged to the tribe. Sentencing before U.S. District Judge John C. Coughenour is scheduled for November 10, 2015 According to the plea agreement, between 2008 and 2014 SCHLICKER set up a secret bank account in the name of the Swinomish Police Department, without the knowledge of the tribal accounting department. SCHLICKER then deposited checks made out to the tribal police into the secret account and withdrew the proceeds in cash, which he then used for his own purposes. SCHLICKER also used the Tribe’s Chevron/Texaco credit card to purchase gas for his and his family members’ personal vehicles. The total loss to the Swinomish Tribe is $33,622. Theft of tribal funds is punishable by up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. The case was investigated by the FBI and the Washington State Patrol. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Seth Wilkinson and Ye-Ting Woo. Press contact for the U.S. Attorney’s Office is Public Affairs Officer Emily Langlie at (206) 553-4110 or Emily.Langlie@usdoj.gov.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—Former Philadelphia Police Officer Jeffrey Walker, 47, of Philadelphia, was sentenced today to 42 months in prison for a scheme in which he planned to rob a drug dealer while on official duty. Walker pleaded guilty, on February 24, 2014, to attempted robbery which interferes with interstate commerce and carrying a firearm during and in relation to a crime of violence. In addition to the prison term, U.S. District Court Judge Eduardo Robreno ordered three years of supervised release, a $5,000 fine and a $200 special assessment. Walker told a cooperating witness (CW) that he wanted the CW to help him identify a drug dealer so that Walker could conduct a car stop for suspected drug violations or plant drugs in the car. On May 21, 2013, the CW informed Walker of a car parked outside of a bar on West Girard Avenue. Walker drove up to the car, placed drugs inside the car, and then followed the driver when that person left the bar. When the car was pulled over, Walker took the key to the driver’s home. Walker and the CW went to the driver’s home. When they exited the home, Walker was arrested and was in possession of $15,000 that he had taken from the house. The case was investigated by the FBI and Philadelphia Police Department. It was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Anthony Wzorek.
corruption WASHINGTON—A member of Congress and four of his associates were indicted today for their roles in a racketeering conspiracy involving several schemes that were intended to further the political and financial interests of the defendants and others by, among other tactics, misappropriating hundreds of thousands of dollars of federal, charitable and campaign funds. Congressman Chaka Fattah Sr., 58, of Philadelphia; lobbyist Herbert Vederman, 69, of Palm Beach, Florida; Fattah’s Congressional District Director Bonnie Bowser, 59, of Philadelphia; and Robert Brand, 69, of Philadelphia; and Karen Nicholas, 57, of Williamstown, New Jersey, were charged today in a 29-count indictment with participating in a racketeering conspiracy and other crimes, including bribery; conspiracy to commit mail, wire and honest services fraud; and multiple counts of mail fraud, falsification of records, bank fraud, making false statements to a financial institution and money laundering. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Zane David Memeger of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, Special Agent in Charge Edward J. Hanko of the FBI’s Philadelphia Division and Special Agent in Charge Akeia Conner of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI) Philadelphia Field Office made the announcement. “As charged in the indictment, Congressman Fattah and his associates embarked on a wide-ranging conspiracy involving bribery, concealment of unlawful campaign contributions and theft of charitable and federal funds to advance their own personal interests,” said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. “When elected officials betray the trust and confidence placed in them by the public, the department will do everything we can to ensure that they are held accountable. Public corruption takes a particularly heavy toll on our democracy because it undermines people’s basic belief that our elected leaders are committed to serving the public interest, not to lining their own pockets.” “The public expects their elected officials to act with honesty and integrity,” said U.S. Attorney Memeger. “By misusing campaign funds, misappropriating government funds, accepting bribes, and committing bank fraud, as alleged in the Indictment, Congressman Fattah and his co-conspirators have betrayed the public trust and undermined faith in government.” “These crimes and the subsequent elaborate cover-up constitute an egregious breach of public trust,” said Special Agent in Charge Hanko. “It is the duty of the FBI, IRS and Department of Justice to investigate and prosecute those who violate this trust and put personal gain above public service.” “Public corruption by our elected officials and their associates undermines the American public’s confidence in our government,” said Special Agent in Charge Conner. “When our elected officials and their associates violate the law and create sophisticated financial schemes to enrich themselves, the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation, will work diligently with our fellow law enforcement partners to restore the public’s trust.” Specifically, the indictment alleges that, in connection with his failed 2007 campaign to serve as mayor of Philadelphia, Fattah and certain associates borrowed $1 million from a wealthy supporter and disguised the funds as a loan to a consulting company. After he lost the election, Fattah allegedly returned $400,000 to the donor that the campaign had not used, and arranged for Educational Advancement Alliance (EAA), a non-profit entity that he founded and controlled, to repay the remaining $600,000 using charitable and federal grant funds that passed through two other companies, including one run by Brand. To conceal the contribution and repayment scheme, the defendants and others allegedly created sham contracts and made false entries in accounting records, tax returns and campaign finance disclosure statements. In addition, the indictment alleges that after his defeat in the mayoral election, Fattah sought to extinguish approximately $130,000 in campaign debt owed to a political consultant by agreeing to arrange for the award of federal grant funds to the consultant. According to the allegations in the indictment, Fattah directed the consultant to apply for a $15 million grant, which he did not ultimately receive, on behalf of a then non-existent non-profit entity. In exchange for Fattah’s efforts to arrange the award of the funds to the non-profit, the consultant allegedly agreed to forgive the debt owed by the campaign. The indictment further alleges that Fattah misappropriated funds from his mayoral and congressional campaigns to repay his son’s student loan debt. To execute the scheme, Fattah and Bowser allegedly arranged for his campaigns to make payments to a political consulting company, which the company then used to lessen Fattah’s son’s student loan debt. According to the allegations in the indictment, between 2007 and 2011, the consultant made 34 successful loan payments on behalf of Fattah’s son, totaling approximately $23,000. In another alleged scheme, beginning in 2008, Fattah communicated with individuals in the legislative and executive branches in an effort to secure for Vederman an ambassadorship or an appointment to the U.S. Trade Commission. In exchange, Vederman provided money and other items of value to Fattah. As part of this scheme, the indictment alleges that the defendants sought to conceal an $18,000 bribe payment from Vederman to Fattah by disguising it as a payment for a car sale that never actually took place. Finally, the indictment alleges that Nicholas obtained $50,000 in federal grant funds that she claimed would be used by EAA to support a conference on higher education. The conference never took place. Instead, Nicholas used the grant funds to pay $20,000 to a political consultant and $10,000 to her attorney, and wrote several checks to herself from EAA’s operating account. The charges and allegations contained in an indictment are merely accusations. The defendants are presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty. The case is being investigated by the FBI and IRS-CI. Assistance was also provided by the Department of Justice’s Office of the Inspector General, the NASA Office of Inspector General and the Department of Commerce’s Office of Inspector General. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Eric L. Gibson, T. Patrick Martin and Jonathan Kravis of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Paul L. Gray of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. Trial Attorney Bob Dalton of the Criminal Division’s Organized Crime and Gang Section also provided assistance in this case.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Pamela Bondi, Florida Attorney General, and Margaret Moore-Jackson, Special Agent in Charge, United States Social Security Administration, Office of Inspector General (SSA-OIG), Shimon R. Richmond, Special Agent in Charge, Miami Region, United States Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General (HHS-OIG), made the announcement. Irma Davidian, 52, of Boca Raton, is charged with conspiracy to commit bribery in programs receiving federal funds and commit health care fraud; and conspiracy to give a gratuity to a public official, both, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371. Gladys Roman, 47, and George Lopez, 35, both of Pompano Beach, are charged in a separate information, with conspiracy to commit bribery in programs receiving federal funds and commit health care fraud, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371. Maria Sanchez, 50, of Pembroke Pines, is charged with conspiracy to receive and accept a gratuity by a public official, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371. Alejandro Lomoso, 56, of Southwest Ranches, is charged with conspiracy to receive and accept a gratuity by a public official, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371. According to allegations contained in documents filed with the court, Davidian was in the business of representing persons who sought to obtain government benefits, including Social Security, Medicaid and Food Stamp benefits. Davidian would claim that, for a payment ranging from $2,000-$5,000, she could obtain those benefits for individuals regardless of their personal circumstances. Roman was employed by the Florida Department of Child and Family Services (DCF) as an interview clerk and inputted information from those persons applying for Medicaid and Food Stamps benefits into a DCF computer. The Medicaid applications would then be assigned to a DCF case worker whose job title was an Economic Self-Sufficiency Specialist (ESS). The court documents allege that, in or about April 2009, Roman submitted applications to DCF on behalf of Davidian’s clients and did so from her home or a public library and would add or change information to enhance the application. Davidian repeatedly asked Roman if there was an ESS worker at DCF who Davidian could pay to approve DCF applications. Lopez was an ESS for DCF. His duties included approving or denying requests for Medicaid and Food Stamp benefits. In or about 2012, Lopez agreed that, in exchange for money, he would approve applications submitted by Davidian on behalf of her clients. In addition, court records allege that every other week, Davidian submitted applications on behalf of her clients to Roman so that they could be forwarded to DCF. Davidian submitted fraudulent documents with some of the applications in order to make it appear that her clients met the benefit requirements. Davidian instructed Roman to assign Lopez as the ESS worker in order to ensure that some of the fraudulent applications would be approved. According to allegations, Roman would then fraudulently approve benefits for applicants who were not otherwise qualified. If benefits for Medicaid or Food Stamps were properly denied by another DCF employee, Lopez logged into the DCF computer system and overrode the denial and approved the benefits. Beginning in or about 2012 through in or about January 2014, every other week, Davidian paid Roman and Lopez each $500. As a result of the scheme, Roman and Lopez assisted Davidian to seek more than $5,000,000 in fraudulent benefits. Court records further allege that Sanchez and Lomoso worked as claims representatives for the SSA. From in or about 2008 through in or about early 2011, Sanchez and Lomoso would periodically receive applications from Davidian on behalf of persons seeking SSA benefits. In exchange for payment, Sanchez and Lomoso would expedite and/or modify the application process. Davidian gave, offered, and promised approximately $9,500 in U.S. currency to Lomoso and approximately $13,000-$15,000 to Sanchez in exchange for performing their official acts. If convicted, Davidian faces a statutory maximum term of imprisonment of 10 years’ imprisonment and/or a fine of up to $500,000 and may be ordered to pay restitution. If convicted, defendants Roman, Lopez, Sanchez, and Lomoso each face a statutory maximum term of imprisonment of five years’ imprisonment and/or a fine of up to $250,000 and may be ordered to pay restitution. In conjunction with the federal charges, the following individuals were arrested and charged by the Florida Attorney General’s Medicaid Fraud Control Unit: Alexey Mesiatsev, 61, of Wellington, FL Ilya Massarsky, 38, of Sunny Isles Beach, FL Lyudmila Ustakova, 46, of Boca Raton, FL Maryna Makhnyeva, 37, of Boca Raton, FL Natalya Krichevskaya, 49, of Ft. Lauderdale, FL Olga Maximova, 53, of Sunny Isles Beach, FL Sergei Berezin, 43, of Boca Raton, FL Lyudmila Pereverzeva, 56, of Hallandale Beach, FL The total loss to the Florida Medicaid program as a result of the defendants alleged conduct is more than $2.7 million. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI, Florida Attorney General’s Office, SSA-OIG, HHS-OIG, MFCU and the Florida Department of Children and Families OIG. Attorney General Pam Bondi’s Office of Statewide Prosecution will handle the state law violations. The federal matters are being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Jeffrey N. Kaplan and Thomas P. Lanigan. An information is only an accusation and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. Suspected Medicaid fraud can be reported to the Department of Justice through www.stopmedicarefraud.gov or 800-447-8477, or the Florida Attorney General’s Office by calling the hotline telephone at 866-966-7226 or by filing a complaint at http://myfloridalegal.com. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at http://www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Southern District of Florida at http://www.flsd.uscourts.gov or on http://pacer.flsd.uscourts.gov.
corruption MUSKOGEE, OK—The United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Oklahoma, announced that CRYSTAL DEANN AIRINGTON, age 40, of Durant, Oklahoma, pled guilty to THEFT BY OFFICERS OR EMPLOYEES OF GAMING ESTABLISHMENT ON INDIAN LANDS, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1168(b) and 2, punishable by not more than 20 years’ imprisonment, up to a $1,000,000.00 fine or both. The Indictment alleged that from in or about January, 2012 to on or about December 15, 2012, in the Eastern District of Oklahoma, CRYSTAL DEANN AIRINGTON, defendant herein, while an employee of the Choctaw Nation Casino and Resort, did embezzle, abstract, purloin, willfully misapply, and take and carry away in excess of $1,000.00 of moneys belonging to the Choctaw Nation Casino and Resort, an Indian gaming establishment operated by the Choctaw Nation in Indian Country, pursuant to an ordinance or resolution approved by the National Indian Gaming Commission. The charges arose from an investigation by the Choctaw Nation Tribal Police and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The Honorable Kimberly E. West, Magistrate Judge in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Oklahoma, in Muskogee, accepted the guilty plea and ordered the completion of a presentence report. Sentencing will be scheduled following its completion. The defendant will remain on bond pending sentencing. Assistant United States Attorney Edward Snow represented the United States.
corruption Earlier today, following four weeks of trial, a federal jury in Brooklyn, New York, returned guilty verdicts against New York State Senator John Sampson, for one count of obstruction of justice and two counts of making false statements to federal agents. Since 1997, Sampson has served in the New York State Senate representing the 19th Senate District in southeastern Brooklyn. From June 2009 to December 2012, Sampson was the leader of the Democratic Conference of the Senate, and from January 2011 to December 2012, he was also the Senate Minority Leader. Sampson has also served as the chairman of the Senate Ethics Committee and the Senate Judiciary Committee. When sentenced by United States District Judge Dora L. Irizarry, Sampson faces a sentence of up to 20 years in prison. The verdict was announced by Kelly T. Currie, Acting United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, and Diego Rodriguez, Assistant Director-in-Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation, New York Field Office. “Today’s verdict stands as a vindication of the efforts of this office and the FBI to aggressively root out corruption undertaken by a public official in New York,” stated Acting United States Attorney Currie. “Sampson, a lawyer, New York State Senator, Senate leader, and one time chair of the Senate Ethics Committee, abused his power and violated his oath undermining the very system of laws he was sworn to uphold. He will now be held accountable for his crimes.” Mr. Currie expressed his grateful appreciation to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Office of the Inspector General; the Public Integrity Section of the Department of Justice; and the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Justice for their assistance in this case. FBI Assistant Director-in-Charge Rodriguez stated, “Sampson’s decision to engage in corrupt and illegal behavior was further aggravated by his efforts to conceal the scheme from FBI agents charged with investigating his misconduct. As this case proves, we, along with our partners, will continue to root out obstruction of justice in all forms and at all levels of government.” The evidence at trial and publicly filed documents in the case established that, among other things, Sampson, as an attorney practicing in Brooklyn, embezzled funds he held in escrow from the sale of real estate properties. Concerned that his theft might be discovered by law enforcement, in 2006 Sampson asked an associate for $188,500 to replenish the stolen funds. In exchange, Sampson used his position as a Senator to assist the associate’s real estate business interests. In the summer of 2011, the associate was arrested and charged by this office with bank and wire fraud. Sampson feared that the associate might cooperate with the government and disclose Sampson’s embezzlement, so Sampson contacted a close personal friend, who was also a supervisory paralegal in this office, and asked him to find out if Sampson was under investigation and to obtain confidential information about the associate’s case, including the identities of cooperating witnesses. The paralegal agreed and reported his findings to Sampson. Sampson told his associate about his source and added that if they could determine the identities of cooperating witnesses in the associate’s case, they could “take them out.” Sampson also suggested that they hire a private investigator to do the “dirty work.” Sampson then directed his associate to withhold from the government evidence regarding the $188,500 payment. At a February 2012 meeting, the associate told Sampson that the government had subpoenaed the associate’s business records, including a check register page documenting the payment. The Associate showed the page to Sampson, who examined it and stated, “That’s a problem . . . I mean for me.” Sampson kept the page and instructed his associate not to disclose it to the government. On July 27, 2012, FBI Special Agents interviewed Sampson, and he denied being familiar with the check register page. Sampson also falsely denied directing his Senate staffers to take certain actions relating to regulatory issues for a liquor store in which Sampson held an ownership interest. At the conclusion of the interview, the agents advised Sampson that he had lied to federal agents, which constituted a federal crime. When asked whether he wished to revise his statement, Sampson stated, “Not everything I told you was false.” The government’s case is being prosecuted by the Office’s Public Integrity Section. Assistant United States Attorneys Paul Tuchmann, Alexander Solomon, and Marisa Seifan are in charge of the prosecution. Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption NEW ORLEANS—U.S. Attorney Kenneth A. Polite announced that BRANDON LICCIARDI, age 29 of Meraux, Louisiana, and ERIK NUNEZ, age 28, formerly of New Orleans, were charged today in a seven-count second superseding indictment. LICCIARDI, a former St. Bernard Deputy, was charged with Conspiracy to Distribute MDMA (Ecstasy) Alprazolam, Diazepam and Zolpidem with intent to commit rape and two counts of distributing these substances with intent to commit rape. LICCIARDI was also charged with two counts of Witness Tampering and one count of Impeding an Investigation. NUNEZ was charged with Conspiracy to Impede an Official Investigation. The maximum punishments for these offenses are as follows: COUNT CHARGE DEFENDANT MAXIMUM PENALTIES 1 18 U.S.C. 1512(b)(1); Tampering with a Witness Brandon Licciardi 20 Years, $250,000 Fine, 3 Years Supervised Release. 2 18 U.S.C. 1512(b)(1); Tampering with a Witness Brandon Licciardi 20 Years, $250,000 Fine, 3 Years Supervised Release. 3 18 U.S.C. 1512(c)(2); Impeding an Investigation Brandon Licciardi 20 Years, $250,000 Fine, 3 Years Supervised Release. 4 18 U.S.C. 1512(k), Conspiracy to Impede an Investigation Erik Nunez 20 Years, $250,000 Fine, 3 Years Supervised Release. 5 21 U.S.C. 846; Conspiracy to Distribute a Schedule IV Controlled Substance; Brandon Licciardi 20 Years, $250,000 Fine, 3 Years Supervised Release. 6 21 U.S.C. 841(a)(1),(b)(1)(D) & (E)(7)(A); Distribution of a Controlled Substance, Schedule IV Brandon Licciardi 20 Years, $250,000 Fine, 3 Years Supervised Release. 7 21 U.S.C. 841(a)(1),(b)(1)(D) & (E)(7)(A); Distribution of a Controlled Substance, Schedule IV Brandon Licciardi 20 Years, $250,000 Fine, 3 Years Supervised Release. U.S. Attorney Polite indicated that DARREN SHARPER was not named in the current superseding indictment as a result of his prior pleas of guilty to federal drug charges. U.S. Attorney Polite reiterated that, at this time, the charges in the Second Superseding Indictment are merely allegations, and that the guilt of the defendants must be proven beyond a reasonable doubt. U.S. Attorney Polite praised the work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the New Orleans Police Department in investigating this matter and thanked the Orleans Parish District Attorney’s Office for their assistance. Assistant United States Attorneys Mark A. Miller and Michael E. McMahon are in charge of the prosecution.
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, and Patricia M. Ferrick, Special Agent in Charge of the New Haven Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, announced that a federal jury in New Haven today found PAUL PERROTTI, 47, of Middlebury, guilty of embezzling funds while serving as the Fire Chief of the Town of Middlebury. The trial before U.S. District Judge Jeffrey Alker Meyer began on July 9, 2015. “The U.S. Attorney’s Office, FBI and our federal law enforcement partners are committed to investigating corruption at all levels of government, and public officials who misappropriate public funds will be prosecuted,” stated U.S. Attorney Daly. “We thank the members of the jury for their thoughtful consideration of the evidence.” According to the evidence at trial, PERROTTI served as the Fire Chief of the Middlebury Volunteer Fire Department, Inc. (“MVFD”) from 1997 until 2014. PERROTTI also is a licensed electrical contractor and, since approximately 2010, has operated Paul Perrotti Electric, LLC (“PPE”). In 2012 and 2013, PERROTTI used Town funds to pay for unauthorized personal expenses and for expenses associated with PPE. These payments included checks made directly payable to employees of PPE, checks made to various vendors of PPE for PPE-related supplies, and checks made to pay third parties, who ultimately passed on the payments to PERROTTI. PERROTTI also submitted invoices to the Town of Middlebury for expenses that he falsely claimed were incurred by MVFD but, in fact, were expenses related to the business of PPE, including bills for various vendors of PPE. In total, the government believes that PERROTTI embezzled more than $70,000 from the Town and the MVFD. On November 5, 2014, PERROTTI was charged by indictment with three counts of theft concerning programs receiving federal funds. The jury found PERROTTI guilty of Count Two and Count Three of the indictment, but could not reach a verdict on Count One. The charge of theft concerning programs receiving federal funds carries a maximum term of imprisonment of 10 years. Judge Meyer scheduled sentencing for October 29, 2015. This matter has been investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Sarah Karwan and Heather Cherry.
corruption MUSKOGEE, OK—The United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Oklahoma, announced that JOETTA TYLER-HYDE, age 54, of Sallisaw, Oklahoma, was sentenced to 6 months’ imprisonment, followed by 6 months on home detention and three years of supervised release for Theft of Federal Program Funds, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 666. The defendant was also ordered to pay $100,505.66 in restitution. The charges arose from an investigation by the Oklahoma State Auditor and Inspector and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The Information alleged that from in or about July, 2009, through in or about January, 2013, within the Eastern District of Oklahoma, JOETTA TYLER-HYDE, the defendant herein, being an employee of the City of Roland, said organization receiving in any one year period from 2009 through 2013, benefits in excess of $10,000.00 from the United States, embezzled, stole, and intentionally misapplied property worth at least $5,000.00 which was under the care, custody and control of such organization. The Honorable James H. Payne, District Judge in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Oklahoma, presided over the hearing. The defendant was ordered to report to the Bureau of Prisons on September 15, 2015, where she will serve her nonparolable sentence. Assistant United States Attorney Chris Wilson represented the United States.
corruption ABINGDON, VA—Acting United States Attorney Anthony P. Giorno announced today that Joshua Austin and Latoya Austin, a husband and wife, pled guilty today in the United States District Court for the Western District of Virginia in Abingdon for conduct related to the accepting of bribes in exchange for introducing prohibited objects into a federal prison. Joshua Austin, 24, of North Tazewell, Virginia, pled guilty today to a one count Information charging him with accepting a bribe as a public official. Latoya Austin, 22, also of North Tazewell, Virginia, pled guilty today to a one count Information charging her with aiding and abetting the introduction of a prohibited object into a federal prison. According to evidence presented at the guilty plea hearing by Assistant United States Attorney Zachary T. Lee, Austin was employed as a correctional officer for the United States Bureau of Prisons at Federal Correctional Institution McDowell located in Welch, West Virginia. Between January 1, 2015 and July 2, 2015, Austin received multiple monetary payments, totaling at least $10,000, from family members and associates of an inmate at the prison in return for Austin smuggling tobacco products into the prison. These items were then provided to the inmate in violation of Bureau of Prisons regulations. Many of the monetary payments were mailed to a post office box located in Bluefield, Virginia, which had been opened by Latoya Austin. Additionally, Joshua Austin met with a family member of an inmate in Russell County, Virginia in order to receive one of the bribe payments. Joshua Austin faces a potential maximum sentence of fifteen years’ imprisonment and a fine of $250,000. He has also agreed to forfeit $10,700. Latoya Austin faces a potential maximum sentence of six months’ imprisonment and a $5,000 fine. Both sentencing hearings are scheduled for October 14, 2015, at 10:30 a.m. The investigation of this case was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, United States Bureau of Prisons Special Investigative Service at Federal Correctional Institution McDowell, United States Postal Inspection Service, and the United States Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General. Assistant United States Attorney Zachary T. Lee is prosecuting the case for the United States.
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, today announced that KISHA PERKINS, 43, of Waterbury, was sentenced yesterday by U.S. District Judge Michael P. Shea in Hartford to 12 months and one day of imprisonment, followed by one year of supervised release, for participating in a bribe scheme at the Federal Correctional Institution in Danbury (FCI Danbury) where she was employed as a case manager. According to court documents and statements made in court, in June 2013, PERKINS approached another FCI Danbury employee about an opportunity to participate in a scheme to solicit a cash bribe from an inmate at FCI Danbury in exchange for the inmate’s early release to a halfway house. At that time, PERKINS held the job title of “Unit Counselor” at FCI Danbury and did not have administrative authority to recommend inmates for early release. PERKINS explained that her co-worker was needed to complete the scheme because the co-worker had the administrative ability to recommend inmates for early release. PERKINS’ co-worker declined to participate in the scheme, reported the incident to law enforcement and agreed to cooperate in the investigation, which included the use of numerous consensually recorded conversations. In July 2013, under the direction of law enforcement, PERKINS’ co-worker told PERKINS that he/she had changed his/her mind and wanted to participate in the scheme. PERKINS informed her co-worker that a scheme involving the inmate who had been previously identified was no longer feasible. In February 2014, as part of an undercover scenario, PERKINS’ co-worker identified a second inmate as a possible candidate for the bribe scheme. PERKINS agreed to participate and, after extensive planning, on March 8, 2014, PERKINS and her co-worker traveled to a commuter lot off of Exit 28 on Interstate 84 to pick up a partial bribe payment of $5,000 in cash in a fast food bag that, as PERKINS believed, was to be dropped off by an acquaintance of the inmate. PERKINS was arrested on March 14, 2014. On April 27, 2015, PERKINS pleaded guilty to one count of acceptance of a bribe by a public official. In pleading guilty, PERKINS specifically admitted that she participated in the scheme and, in February 2014, agreed to accept a pair of shoes or a Louis Vuitton pocketbook in return for counseling the employee regarding the bribe scheme and failing to report the bribe scheme to prison officials. This matter was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General. The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Susan Wines.
corruption Preet Bharara, United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, announced today that New York State Senator THOMAS W. LIBOUS was found guilty of making false statements to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (“FBI”) following a seven-day trial in White Plains before the Hon. Vincent L. Briccetti, United States District Judge. Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said: “Public corruption is a scourge. Every New Yorker wants us to work as hard as possible to end it. But lies to law enforcement make the job of fighting corruption doubly difficult. Today, a jury unanimously found that Tom Libous, the second highest ranking New York Senator, told lie after lie to hide the truth from federal agents investigating corruption in Albany. Libous’s lies have been exposed, his crime has been proven, and Albany will be the better for it.” The evidence at trial proved that a federal grand jury in White Plains was investigating allegations that THOMAS LIBOUS had obtained a job for a family member at a Westchester law firm (“the Law Firm”) in exchange for a promise to refer business to the firm, and had arranged for an Albany lobbying firm that regularly lobbied him to secretly pay the law firm $50,000 per year to defray the cost of the family member’s salary and lease of a Range Rover. The lobbying firm specialized in transportation issues and THOMAS LIBOUS served as the Chairman of the Senate’s Transportation Committee at the time. The evidence also showed that THOMAS LIBOUS told a partner of the Law Firm that the firm would have to “build a new wing” to accommodate the business he would refer to it if it hired the member of his family. Special Agents of the FBI interviewed THOMAS LIBOUS on June 24, 2010, as part of the grand jury’s investigation. The evidence at trial showed THOMAS LIBOUS made the following false statements to the agents during the interview: he could not recall how the family member began to work at the Law Firm; no deals were made to get the family member the job at the Law Firm; he was not aware that the lobbying firm had paid any part of the family member’s salary at the Law Firm; he never promised to refer work to the Law Firm; he was not involved in the family member’s decision to work at the Law Firm; he had no business or personal relationship with the Law Firm; and he did know of any relationship between the lobbying firm and the Law Firm. * * * LIBOUS, 62, of Binghamton, New York, is scheduled to be sentenced by Judge Briccetti on October 30, 2015. LIBOUS faces a maximum sentence of five years in prison. The maximum potential sentence is prescribed by Congress and is provided here for informational purposes, as any sentencing of the defendant will be determined by the judge. * * * Mr. Bharara praised the investigative work of the FBI. The prosecution is being handled by the Office’s White Plains Division. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Benjamin R. Allee and James McMahon are in charge of the prosecution. Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption PITTSBURGH—A former Guardsmen officer at the 171st Air Refueling Wing in Coraopolis, Pa., has pleaded guilty to conspiring to defraud the United States Air Force and the Air National Guard of tens of thousands of dollars in military pay and benefits, United States Attorney David J. Hickton announced today. Gerard J. Mangis, 60, of Glenshaw, Pa., pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to defraud the U.S. before Senior U.S. District Judge Gustave Diamond. According to information presented to the Court, Mangis, a Colonel and former Mission Support Group Commander at the 171st Air Refueling Wing, conspired with Robert St. Clair, a contract employee at the National Guard Bureau and former tech sergeant at the 171st, to defraud the United States Air Force in false claims for military pay between 2002 and 2011. In 2002, Mangis appointed St. Clair to a position at the 171st where Mangis arranged for St. Clair to be enlisted at the 171st in a “no show” position, and enable him to avoid performing required guardsman duties such as drill weekends and physical tests, while earning valuable military pay and benefits. In exchange, using his authority at National Guard Bureau at Andrews AFB, St. Clair issued streams of military “workdays” to Mangis, which he used to accumulate excessive active and inactive duty military pay between 2006 and 2011. The estimated loss to the government is up to $70,000. U.S. Attorney Hickton said, “Pursuing and prosecuting fraud against the government is a priority of the U.S. Attorney’s Office and the FBI, and we remain steadfast in our shared commitment to protect the public trust through the elimination of corruption.” Judge Diamond scheduled sentencing for Nov. 17, 2015, at 10 a.m. The law allows for a maximum total sentence of five years in prison, a fine of $250,000, or both. Robert St. Clair, who pleaded guilty on April 14, 2014, to a one-count information charging conspiracy to defraud the United States, is scheduled to be sentenced on Sept. 25, 2015 before U.S. District Judge Arthur J. Schwab. Assistant United States Attorney Gregory C. Melucci is prosecuting this case on behalf of the government. The United States Air Force Office of Special Investigations and the Federal Bureau of Investigation conducted the investigation leading to prosecution of this case.
corruption ABINGDON, VA—Acting United States Attorney Anthony P. Giorno, along with representatives from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Internal Revenue Service- Criminal Investigations, announced today the latest conviction in the ongoing investigation into corruption at the Bristol Virginia Utilities Authority (BVU). Today in the United States District Court for the Western District of Virginia, Wes Rosenbalm, 45, of Johnson City, Tennessee, the former CEO at BVU, waived his right to be indicted and pled guilty to a one count Information charging him with conspiracy to defraud the Internal Revenue Service and conspiracy to commit Federal Program Fraud. “It’s unfortunate when we see people in positions of power abuse those positions for personal financial gains,” Acting United States Attorney Anthony P. Giorno said today. “Their abuses have consequences not only for them, but their families as well. This case demonstrates that the U.S. Attorney’s office and our law enforcement partners will be on the lookout for abuses of power and we will hold accountable those who violate the public trust.” “Individuals such as Mr. Rosenbalm, that take advantage of the public to line their own pockets will be held accountable,” said Assistant Special Agent in Charge Kathryn Montemorra on the Internal Revenue Service- Criminal Investigations. “Abusing positions of trust, is a blight on any community and Mr. Rosenbalm’s contributions to this scheme were extensive. Today’s plea should be a warning to those involved in criminal activities that they will be held accountable for their actions.” “Mr. Rosenbalm’s solicitation and acceptance of such extravagant “gifts” at the expense of clients demonstrates the unfortunate need for consumers to be aware of and report public corruption at any government level. Public corruption remains our top criminal priority,” said Special Agent in Charge Adam S. Lee of the FBI’s Richmond Division. According to evidence presented today by Assistant United States Attorney Zachary Lee, Rosenbalm was the CEO at BVU and between January 1, 2003 and January 1, 2014, he and others conspired to defraud the Internal Revenue Service by willfully evading income taxes and conspired to corruptly solicit things of value as a reward for the awarding of contracts to vendors of Bristol Virginia Utilities Authority. In a statement of facts agreed to by both parties and filed with the court during today’s guilty plea hearing, Rosenbalm admitted to soliciting, and using others to solicit gifts and monetary payments from a variety of vendors that did business with BVU while BVU was receiving federal grant funds. These vendors felt the gifts and other payments they were being asked to provide to BVU had to be provided in order to continue to do business with BVU. Rosenbalm has admitted to soliciting gifts and monetary payments that include, but are not limited to: tickets to University of Kentucky basketball games; $663 for alcohol purchases at a BVU customer appreciation event; $2,850 for a Thanksgiving lunch for BVU employees; $15,000 for the BVU Christmas dinner; $5,500 for the BVU Children’s Christmas party; and $4,125 for a scorer’s table at the school one of Rosenbalm’s children attended. Rosenbalm has agreed to pay $50,000 forfeiture to account for this conduct. In addition, Rosenbalm admitted to defrauding the IRS by failing to truthfully report income and benefits received by himself and other BVU employees. This unreported compensation and benefits included country club memberships, personal use of BVU vehicles, bonuses paid in cash to employees, and bonuses paid to employees using gift cards. Rosenbalm has agreed, as part of his plea agreement, to pay $150,000 in restitution to BVU for taxes and penalties owed by BVU as a result of his conduct. He also faces a maximum possible sentence of five years in prison and/or a fine of up to $250,000. The investigation of the case was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Zachary Lee will prosecute the case for the United States.
corruption Earlier today in federal court in Brooklyn, former United States Congressman Michael Grimm was sentenced to a term of incarceration of eight months of incarceration in connection with his conviction for aiding and assisting the preparation of a false tax return. Grimm served as a member of the United States House of Representatives representing New York’s 11th Congressional District, which includes the borough of Staten Island and parts of the borough of Brooklyn, from January 2011 to January 2015. Grimm was sentenced by the Honorable Pamela K. Chen, United States District Judge, Eastern District of New York. The Court also sentenced the defendant to 200 hours of community service.1 The sentence was announced by Kelly T. Currie, Acting United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, Diego Rodriguez, Assistant Director-in-Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), New York Field Office, and Richard Weber, Chief, IRS- Criminal Investigation. “This prosecution and sentence should be a reminder to those in positions of trust that we and our partners in the FBI and IRS will vigorously pursue whomever commits fraud,” said Acting U.S. Attorney Currie. Mr. Currie expressed his grateful appreciation to the Public Integrity Section of Department of Justice, the Northern Criminal Enforcement Section of the Tax Division of the Department of Justice, the New York State Insurance Fund, the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance, and the New York State Department of Labor for their assistance in the investigation. FBI Assistant Director-in-Charge Rodriguez stated, “Grimm didn’t serve his community with honor; he instead engaged in criminal activity to the detriment of the public trust. Today’s sentence should send a message that this type of behavior will not be tolerated, especially when public officials break the law. The FBI and our partners at the IRS will continue our efforts to identify fraudulent practices carried out by elected representatives and free the system from the consequences of their actions.” “Former Congressman Grimm made a conscious decision to break the law and benefit personally by underreporting $900,000 in restaurant gross receipts and lowering payroll taxes through ‘off-the-book’ payments, then lying under oath to conceal his criminal activity,” said IRS-Criminal Investigation Chief Weber. “Tax crimes are not victimless crimes and Grimm’s actions harmed the very citizens he was elected to serve. We expect all taxpayers to follow the law—whether you are a business owner, individual, or elected official—we all must play by the same rules.” In connection with his guilty plea on December 23, 2014, Grimm entered into a stipulation of facts acknowledging the scope of his criminal conduct. As part of that stipulation of facts, Grimm admitted that: From 2007 through 2009, Grimm was a member in Healthalicious, a Manhattan restaurant. During that time period, Grimm oversaw the day-to-day operations of the restaurant, which included the reporting and distribution of the restaurant’s payroll. Grimm under-reported the true amount that Healthalicious earned, using a portion of those unreported receipts to pay the restaurant’s workers “off the books” in cash. With Grimm’s knowledge, the restaurant employed those who were not lawfully admitted to the United States and who were not authorized to work in this country. In total, Grimm concealed over $900,000 in Healthalicious’ gross receipts from the accountant who prepared and filed the restaurant’s tax returns. That accountant used the false information provided by Grimm to prepare and file false federal and state tax returns for Healthalicious. Grimm also failed to report the “off the books” cash wages he was paying to Healthalicious workers, which resulted in the restaurant paying lower federal and state payroll taxes. Some Healthalicious employees received at least half of their wages in cash, while other workers were paid entirely in cash. Grimm tracked these payments in electronic spreadsheets, but failed to provide accurate information about the restaurant’s payroll to the payroll processing companies employed by the restaurant. As a result, Grimm caused the payroll processing companies to report to the IRS and the NYS Tax Department less than half of the wages Healthalicious actually paid its employees. Additionally, Grimm under-reported Healthalicious’ payroll to the New York State Insurance Fund (“NYSIF”), lowering the monthly workers’ compensation premium the restaurant paid to NYSIF. As part of his scheme, Grimm caused numerous false documents to be filed with federal and state tax authorities between 2007 and 2010. In total, Grimm’s conduct caused federal and New York State tax and NYSIF premium losses between $80,000 and $200,000. While a Member of Congress in January 2013, Grimm was deposed under oath by the attorney of a former employee in connection with a civil lawsuit relating to the labor practices at Healthalicious in which Grimm was a defendant. The lawsuit was pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. Grimm admitted to testifying during the deposition to things that, at the time, he knew to be false. Specifically, Grimm testified during the deposition that Healthalicious employees had not been paid in cash, when he knew that restaurant employees had in fact been paid “off the books” in cash. Similarly, Grimm testified that, to the extent he used e-mail in operating Healthalicious, he used a Yahoo account to which he no longer had access. Grimm also admitted that, at the time of the deposition, he in fact had access to an AOL account which he had used for Healthalicious related business and which contained many e-mails related to the restaurant. The government’s case is being prosecuted by the Office’s Public Integrity Section. Assistant United States Attorneys James Gatta and Nathan Reilly are in charge of the prosecution. The Defendant: MICHAEL GRIMM Age: 45 Staten Island, New York 1 In addition to the term of incarceration, the Court ordered Grimm to pay restitution to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance, and the New York State Insurance Fund (NYSIF) in a total amount to be determined after sentencing. Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption BUFFALO, NY—U.S. Attorney William J. Hochul, Jr. announced today that Tasha Collier, 39, of Buffalo, NY, who was convicted of theft and conversion concerning programs receiving federal funds, was sentenced to three years’ probation and directed to make restitution to the City of Buffalo in the amount of $22,292.50 by Chief U.S. District Judge Frank P. Geraci, Jr. Assistant U.S. Attorney Joseph M. Guerra, who handled the case, stated that the defendant was employed as a clerk in the Licensing Department of the City of Buffalo between July 2013 and August 25, 2014. As part of her duties as a clerk, Collier was responsible for collecting payments in cash and by check for licenses issued by the City of Buffalo. Between September 2013 and August 2014, the defendant stole approximately $22,000 in cash, funds that were supposed to be remitted to the City Treasury Department. The sentencing is the culmination of an investigation on the part of Special Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Buffalo Police Department, under the direction of Commissioner Daniel Derenda.
corruption WASHINGTON—A Fort Buchanan Army Reserve Staff Sergeant pleaded guilty today to bulk cash smuggling of $113,050 and theft of government property worth $6,302 while serving in Afghanistan. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Rose Emilia Rodriguez-Velez of the District of Puerto Rico, Special Agent in Charge Carlos Cases of the FBI’s San Juan Division Field Office, Special Agent in Charge Gary J. Hartwig of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Homeland Security Investigations (ICE-HSI) Chicago Field Office, Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction John F. Sopko, Director Frank Robey of the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command’s (CID) Major Procurement Fraud Unit, Acting Special Agent in Charge Paul Sternal of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service’s (DCIS) Mid-Atlantic Field Office and Brigadier General Keith M. Givens, Commander of the Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) made the announcement. Luis Ramon Casellas, 42, of Canovanas, Puerto Rico, pleaded guilty before U.S. Magistrate Judge Camille L. Velez-Rive of the District of Puerto Rico to three counts of bulk cash smuggling and one count of theft of government property. Sentencing before U.S. District Judge Carmen Consuelo Cerezo of the District of Puerto Rico will be scheduled at a later date. Since 2009, Casellas has been an Army Reservist Staff Sergeant on active status based at Fort Buchanan in Guaynabo, Puerto Rico. In April 2013, Casellas was deployed by the Army to Kandahar Airfield in Afghanistan. As part of his duties, Casellas was responsible for helping to break down smaller bases in preparation for the withdrawal of U.S. military forces from Afghanistan. These duties included retrieving U.S. government property for future use and selling unsuitable material as scrap to Afghan contractors. Between June 17 and Aug. 9, 2013, Casellas was the leader of a three-person Army team that went to a Forward Operating Base (FOB) in Afghanistan to help break down that base. In connection with his plea, Casellas admitted that, while this team was at the FOB, he stole tools and equipment, including laptops, belonging to the U.S. Department of Defense. Casellas also admitted that, in July 2013, Casellas sent approximately eight boxes from the FOB through the U.S. Postal Service addressed to his wife in Puerto Rico, and that the boxes contained some of the stolen government property and undeclared U.S. currency totaling $50,500. In addition, in August 2013, Casellas sent two boxes from Kandahar through UPS, again addressed to his wife, that were marked as “gifts for family.” In connection with his plea, Casellas admitted that, although he declared that the items inside the boxes were valued at $700 and $400, respectively, one box contained some of the stolen government property as well as $41,750 in U.S. currency, and the other box contained $20,800 in U.S. currency. These boxes were intercepted by U.S. Customs in Louisville, Kentucky. This case was investigated by the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, the FBI, ICE-HSI, Army CID, DCIS and AFOSI. This case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Daniel P. Butler of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Julia M. Meconiates of the District of Puerto Rico.
corruption ATLANTA—Daynna Gregory, the last of three defendants charged with stealing state restitution funds, has pleaded guilty. Earlier this year, Tammi Stephens and Richard Cantrell also entered guilty pleas to theft of public funds and conspiracy stemming from a check fraud scheme to steal from a victims’ restitution fund controlled by the Georgia Department of Corrections where Stephens and Gregory formerly worked as an account paraprofessional and an accounting clerk, respectively. “The State of Georgia created this fund for the honorable purpose of providing relief to victims of financial crime, and these defendants callously stole from this fund to enrich themselves,” said Acting U.S. Attorney John Horn. “This conduct is all the more disturbing because as Georgia Department of Corrections employees Stephens and Gregory were responsible for issuing restitution checks to the people they preyed upon.” “When those within the criminal justice system so deliberately choose to engage in such corrupt criminal activity as seen in this case, it is truly disheartening. The FBI will continue to work with its various law enforcement partners, to include the Georgia Department of Corrections, to ensure that this type of criminal conduct is swiftly addressed,” said J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office. “The guilty plea by these former employees is a reflection of the professional and diligent work by our internal investigations team and their partnership with our colleagues at the FBI,” said Commissioner Homer Bryson. “We remain committed to our zero-tolerance policy for this type of conduct by employees entrusted with public funds,” continued Bryson. According to Acting U.S. Attorney Horn, the charges and other information presented in court: From September 2013 to June 2014, Stephens and Gregory were employees in the Georgia Department of Corrections’ banking unit where they were responsible for issuing checks drawn on a restitution fund set up to compensate victims of other crimes. The defendants formed and carried out a plan to steal victim restitution by having Stephens and Gregory use their access to the fund to issue fraudulent checks payable to a flower shop owned by Cantrell, who was not a Department employee. The checks were purposely issued to Cantrell’s flower shop to hide the defendants’ involvement in the theft. Cantrell agreed to use his business to launder the stolen money. After printing the fraudulent checks, Stephens and Gregory altered the Department’s financial records to further disguise their theft. Stephens and Gregory issued twenty-nine fraudulent checks to the flower shop, which were then delivered to Cantrell, who cashed them and split the proceeds with Stephens and Gregory. In total, the defendants stole more than $232,000 in restitution funds, which they then spent on a variety of retail purchases. Each of the defendants pleaded guilty before U.S. District Court Judge Steve C. Jones. Richard Cantrell, 54, of Marietta, Georgia, was sentenced by Judge Jones on July 10, 2015, to two years in prison followed by three years of supervised release. Tammi Stephens, 37, of Forsyth, Georgia, will be sentenced on July 31, 2015, at 3:00 p.m. Daynna Gregory, 41, of Lithonia, Georgia, will be sentenced on September 24, 2015 at 2:30 p.m. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Georgia Department of Corrections. Assistant United States Attorney Kurt R. Erskine and Special Assistant United States Attorney Trevor C. Wilmot are prosecuting the case.
corruption COLUMBIA, SC—United States Attorney Bill Nettles stated today that Jason Amodio (46) of Lexington, South Carolina was sentenced to eight months of home confinement and four years of probation. Senior United States District Judge Joseph F. Anderson Jr. sentenced Amodio in federal court in Columbia, for Lying to a Federal Grand Jury, a violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1623. Evidence established that during a joint federal and state investigation into illegal gambling, extortion under color of law, mail and wire fraud, and related public corruption in Lexington County, Amodio appeared before a federal grand jury. Asked about the purpose of a particular check payable to Amodio, Amodio claimed that the check was a loan. In fact, Amodio knew this was false and that the check was an improper payment from an attorney in Lexington. Amodio had assisted in convincing a family to hire that attorney to file a civil lawsuit after a car wreck had left one member of the family dead and one injured. When the attorney received a fee in return for his representation, that attorney then paid Amodio through an intermediary. United States Attorney Bill Nettles stated, “We must ensure that the public has confidence that officials have integrity and are truthful. Mr. Amodio transported himself from the Chief of Police to a felon because he betrayed this basic tenant.” The Court arrived at the sentence by factoring in the cooperation that Mr. Amodio has provided and is currently providing in an on-going public corruption probe. Additionally, Mr. Amodio has agreed to plead guilty in state court to a charge of misconduct in office. This case is part of a joint investigation of the FBI, SLED, the South Carolina Attorney General’s Office, and the United States Attorney’s Office into public corruption and is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Jay N. Richardson and Jim May and Assistant Deputy Attorney Generals Creighton Waters and Brian Petrano.
corruption Three owners and the CEO of a government contracting company headquartered in Falls Church, Virginia, all of whom are retired Army National Guard colonels, were indicted today for their alleged participation in a scheme to bribe an active-duty Army National Guard colonel in order to obtain millions of dollars of Army National Guard marketing, retention and recruitment contracts. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Dana J. Boente of the Eastern District of Virginia, Assistant Director in Charge Andrew G. McCabe of the FBI’s Washington, D.C., Field Office, Acting Special Agent in Charge Paul Sternal of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS) Mid-Atlantic Field Office and Director Frank Robey of the U.S. Army Criminal Investigative Command’s Major Procurement Fraud Unit (Army-CID) made the announcement. “As alleged in the indictment, four retired colonels have been charged with using their corporate marketing firm to funnel bribe payments to high-ranking accomplices in the Army National Guard to corruptly obtain lucrative marketing contracts,” said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. “This case is emblematic of the Criminal Division’s ongoing efforts to root out corruption wherever it may be found, including at the highest ranks of our armed services.” “These criminal charges reflect our continued commitment to rooting out public corruption wherever it occurs,” said U.S. Attorney Boente. “The public contracting process should be one of integrity and fairness, and these cases should send a strong message that public corruption will be vigorously prosecuted in the military as well as other areas of government.” “The FBI’s top criminal priority is investigating and stopping corrupt officials and the organizations they do business with,” said Assistant Director in Charge McCabe. “These indictments outline a significant bribery scheme that undermined a fair government contracting process.” “The actions of the defendants have brought them dishonor and erode confidence in the integrity of a contracting process intended to support their fellow citizen soldiers,” said Acting Special Agent in Charge Sternal. “The Defense Criminal Investigative Service, alongside its law enforcement partners and the U.S. Attorney’s Office, remain vigilant and committed to bringing individuals who subvert the acquisition system to justice.” “Today’s indictment illustrates our commitment and cooperation shared between law enforcement agencies investigating this type of corruption and bribery,” said Director Robey. “It is unconscionable how these former military officers betrayed the offices they once held for monetary gain.” Edwin Stuart Livingston III, 67, of The Villages, Florida; Ronald Joseph Tipa, 68, of Sunny Isles Beach, Florida; Thomas Edward Taylor, 66, of Alexandria, Virginia; and Ross Bernard DeBlois Sr., 55, of Fairfax Station, Virginia, are each charged by indictment with one count of conspiracy to commit bribery, one count of bribery of a public official, one count of conspiracy to commit honest services fraud and five counts of honest services fraud. According to the indictment, Livingston, Tipa, Taylor and John Jones, 77, a retired brigadier general from the New York Army National Guard, each owned 25 percent of MPSC and constituted MPSC’s Board of Directors. DeBlois was the company’s CEO. The National Guard Bureau (NGB) is a joint activity of the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD), the state units of the Army National Guard and the Departments of the Army and Air Force. The NGB oversees the distribution of federal funding provided to the Army National Guard and its state units. The DOD provides millions of dollars in federal funds to the NGB for, among other things, advertising, marketing and sponsorships in order to recruit new Army National Guard members. The NGB then uses these funds to promote the Army National Guard on a national level by entering into marketing contracts. According to the allegations in the indictment, in 2010 or 2011, Livingston and Tipa offered Robert Porter, 50, who then was an active-duty colonel in the Army National Guard who held a high-level position at the NGB, a deal in which MPSC would pay Porter 1 percent of the value of all contracts he steered to MPSC. The indictment alleges that Porter was to receive the bribe payment after he retired from the NGB and began working for MPSC, and that the payment was to be concealed as an “incentive fee” or “bonus” payment in MPSC payroll records. According to the indictment, during 2011 and 2012, Porter allegedly steered at least three NGB marketing contracts to MPSC, which were worth a total of approximately $5.5 million. The indictment alleges that, during a July 2014 meeting of MPSC’s board of directors, DeBlois confirmed that three contracts were awarded to MPSC while Porter was “in uniform.” Thereafter, Livingston, Tipa, Taylor and Jones allegedly unanimously voted to make the promised bribe payment to Porter. The indictment further alleges that, between July and September 2014, MPSC made three payments to Porter, each for over $10,000. In September 2014, Porter pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery and bribery of a public official, and in February 2015, Jones pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery and bribery of a public official in connection with this scheme. The charges and allegations contained in the indictment are merely accusations. The defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. The case was investigated by the FBI’s Washington Field Office, DCIS Mid-Atlantic Field Office and Army-CID’s Major Procurement Fraud Unit. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Alison L. Anderson of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Fahey of the Eastern District of Virginia. Individuals with information regarding bribery or corruption within the NGB’s retention and recruitment contracting process or at MPSC should contact the FBI’s Washington Field Office at (202) 278–2000.
corruption The Department of Justice filed a civil forfeiture complaint today seeking to recover approximately $12.5 million in assets found in the United States that derive from bribery and kickback schemes in the Philippines spanning nearly a decade. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and Assistant Director in Charge David Bowdich of the FBI’s Los Angeles Field Office made the announcement. “Over nearly a decade, Janet Napoles allegedly stole millions of dollars in funds entrusted to her for development assistance and disaster relief for the people of the Philippines,” said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. “In an effort to disguise and enjoy her ill-gotten gains, Napoles purchased properties and other assets in the United States for herself and her family members, including a condominium at the Ritz and a Porsche. The Justice Department will not allow the United States to become a playground for the corrupt or a place to hide and invest stolen riches.” “The FBI is committed to ensuring that the U.S. financial system is not used to launder the proceeds of foreign bribery schemes,” said Assistant Director in Charge Bowdich. “Nor is the United States a safe haven for the fruits of corruption.” As alleged in the complaint, from approximately 2004 to 2012, Philippine businesswoman Janet Napoles, 51, paid tens of millions of dollars in bribes and kickbacks to Philippine politicians and other government officials in exchange for over $200 million in funding for purported development assistance and disaster relief. Napoles’ non-governmental organizations (NGOs), however, then either failed to provide, or under-delivered on, the promised support. The complaint further alleges that Napoles also diverted NGO funds for her own personal use and benefit, often draining accounts within days of government disbursements. For this conduct, the Philippines’ Office of the Ombudsman has charged Napoles, two of her children and numerous current and former Philippine politicians and other government officials in connection with what has been nicknamed the “pork barrel scam.” The complaint alleges that Napoles transferred over $12 million in Philippine government-awarded funds to bank accounts in the United States in the names of, or controlled by, her family members. According the complaint, Napoles used the money to purchase numerous assets, including a condominium at the Ritz-Carlton in Los Angeles for her 21-year-old daughter. The complaint seeks to forfeit the proceeds from the sale of the Los Angeles condominium, along with several other assets, including a motel near Disneyland in Anaheim, California; properties in Covina and Irvine, California; a 19 percent stake in a California-based consulting company; and a Porsche Boxster that was purchased for another daughter. Napoles is currently serving a sentence of life in prison in the Philippines for her role in the kidnapping and detention of her cousin, Benhur Luy, who served as Napoles’s finance officer and tracked her schemes. The complaint was brought under the Kleptocracy Asset Recovery Initiative, in which a team of dedicated prosecutors in the Criminal Division’s Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section work in partnership with federal law enforcement agencies to forfeit the proceeds of foreign official corruption and, where appropriate, return those proceeds to benefit the people harmed by these acts of corruption and abuse of office. Individuals with information about possible proceeds of foreign corruption located in or laundered through the United States should contact federal law enforcement or send an e-mail to kleptocracy@usdoj.gov. The investigation was conducted by the FBI’s Los Angeles Field Office.  The case is being handled by Trial Attorney Alexis J. Loeb of the Criminal Division’s Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section, with substantial support from the U.S. Attorney’s Office of the Central District of California, the U.S. Marshals Service and the Criminal Division’s Office of International Affairs.  The Justice Department also thanks the Philippines’ Office of the Ombudsman, Anti-Money Laundering Council, National Bureau of Investigation and Department of Justice for their cooperation in this matter. 
corruption ST. LOUIS, MO—United States District Court Judge Audrey G. Fleissig sentenced former St. Louis City Police Officer Don McGhee to 24 months’ imprisonment this afternoon on charges of providing a firearm to known drug dealers to facilitate their distribution of crack cocaine and marijuana in the City of St. Louis. According to court documents, McGhee was a St. Louis Metropolitan Police Officer, assigned as a Patrolman in the Sixth District. Officer McGhee knew and associated with individuals who stored and distributed quantities of crack cocaine and marijuana in and from a house located in the 3800 block of Cottage Avenue, in the City of St. Louis. On March 2, 2014, Officer McGhee took a Mossberg 12 gauge pistol grip shotgun to the Cottage Avenue drug house and gave it to one of the drug dealers knowing, believing, or having reason to believe that the drug dealer would use the shotgun in relation to and in furtherance of the drug trafficking. During the execution of a search warrant at the Cottage Avenue house several days later, law enforcement officers recovered the Mossberg pistol grip shotgun, fully loaded, along with several other firearms, ammunition, quantities of crack cocaine and marijuana, and a large amount of cash. McGhee, 28, St. Louis City, pled guilty to one felony count of conspiracy to possess a firearm in relation to a drug trafficking crime in April 2015. United States Attorney Richard Callahan stated that this case again proved that the St. Louis City Police Department had the will and the integrity to investigate wrongdoing within its own Department. He noted that this investigation originated with the St. Louis City Police Department which then sought the partnership of additional law enforcement agencies as its investigation expanded. In addition to the St. Louis City Police Department, the case was also investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the United States Drug Enforcement Administration, and the St. Louis Circuit Attorney’s Office.
corruption BOSTON—A former Boston Police officer and former treasurer of the Boston Police Patrolmen’s Association pleaded guilty today in U.S. District Court in Boston to making a false statement to the FBI in connection with his cash loans to a known criminal. David Michael Fitzgerald, 49, who resides in Milton, pleaded guilty to a one count Information of making a false statement to the FBI. Fitzgerald was a Boston Police officer from 1996 until this June when he resigned as part of his plea agreement. He was the treasurer of the Boston Police Patrolmen’s Association (BPAA) from 2012 to 2014. According to court documents, Fitzgerald developed a relationship with an individual who was a known street-level drug dealer and bookmaker. During the course of this relationship, Fitzgerald made cash loans to the individual, which were paid back in weekly installments. On April 27, 2015, Fitzgerald met the individual in Watertown in order to collect a $500 cash installment for one of the outstanding loans. Later that same day, when federal agents who were investigating the matter questioned Fitzgerald, he falsely stated that the purpose of his meeting with the individual was simply social in nature and that he had never loaned money to the individual. Not only were these statements untrue, but they were intended to interfere with an ongoing federal investigation. The charging statute provides a sentence of no greater than five years in prison, three years of supervised release, and a fine of $250,000. In addition to his resignation, the plea agreement also contemplates a joint, non-binding recommendation to the Court for a sentence of one year probation. Actual sentences for federal crimes are typically less than the maximum penalties. Sentences are imposed by a federal district court judge based upon the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and other statutory factors. Judge Nathaniel Gorton set sentencing for Oct. 20, 2015. United States Attorney Carmen M. Ortiz; Vincent B. Lisi, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Boston Field Division; and Boston Police Commissioner William Evans, made the announcement today. The U.S. Attorney’s Office also wishes to acknowledge the cooperation of the Boston Police Department’s Anti-Corruption Division. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Eugenia M. Carris and Robert A. Fisher of Ortiz’s Public Corruption & Special Prosecutions Unit.
corruption The Office of the United States Attorney for the District of Vermont stated that Andre Clarke, age 36, of the Bronx, New York, was arrested today in Queens for conspiring to distribute Oxycodone in Vermont from 2011 through June 2014. Clarke, who has been employed as a New York City police officer since 2002, will have his initial appearance tomorrow in federal court in Brooklyn. At this hearing, he is expected to be given a date to report to Vermont federal court for arraignment. At the arraignment in Vermont, he will enter a plea to the charge. On July 7, 2015, a federal grand jury sitting in Burlington handed down a multi-count Indictment, which charges Clarke, Michael Foreste, and Dannis Hackney with the Vermont Oxycodone conspiracy. Foreste and Hackney are charged with additional drug trafficking and money laundering offenses. According to prosecutors, Clarke, who lived in the Bronx and Long Island during the events in question, supplied oxycodone to Michael Foreste, of Valley Stream, New York. Foreste, in turn, supplied the pills to Dannis Hackney, of Burlington, Vermont, who sold them to Burlington area addicts. Foreste personally brought Hackney pills, and sometimes sent them via U.S. Mail. Clarke, Foreste, and Hackney transferred drug proceeds using various bank accounts. Foreste and Hackney are also each charged with two counts of money laundering based on this banking activity. Foreste and Hackney have been in custody since their arrests in June 2014 and are awaiting trial. The Indictment charging Clarke with drug trafficking is an accusation only; he is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. If convicted on the oxycodone conspiracy charge, each defendant faces up to 20 years in prison. The money laundering counts carry also carry a maximum penalty of 20 years= imprisonment. The actual sentence, in the event of conviction, will be determined by the Court with reference to the advisory Federal Sentencing Guidelines and other statutory sentencing factors. The investigation spanned more than a year and was a collaborative effort of Homeland Security Investigations; the Federal Bureau of Investigation; the Drug Enforcement Administration; and the New York City Police Internal Affairs Bureau. Assistant United States Attorney Christina E. Nolan is handling the prosecution.
corruption MCALLEN, TX—Susana Munguia, 60, and Lubina Pedraza, 53, both of Hidalgo, have pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery, announced U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson. Munguia and Pedraza were former officials with the City of Hidalgo Housing Authority who worked directly with the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)’s Housing Choice Voucher Program (HCVP). Munguia was the executive director and Pedraza was a secretary. From July 2011 to May 2014, Munguia and Pedraza admitted they used their positions as public officials to engage in a bribery scheme. The two women solicited and received bribes in exchange for allowing individuals to skip the Section 8 waitlist and immediately obtain housing assistance from the HCVP. Individuals paid, directly or through a third party, a monetary bribe to Munguia and Pedraza in order to bypass the waitlist system and to receive immediate approval to obtain vouchers for housing subsidies under the HCVP. Munguia supervised and Pedraza was responsible for assigning housing to the payee or beneficiary and issued checks to subsidize their rent payments. After Munguia and Pedraza received the bribe, the paying party (or the person for whom payment was made), would immediately receive their subsidized housing. As part of their guilty plea today, Munguia and Pedraza have agreed to forfeit approximately $14,497 in illicit proceeds. Judge Micaela Alvarez accepted the pleas today and has set sentencing for Sept. 24, 2015, at 2:00 p.m. At that time each woman faces up to five years for their bribery conspiracy conviction. They were permitted to remain on bond pending their sentencing. The investigation leading to the charges was conducted by HUD-Office of Inspector General and the FBI. Assistant U.S. Attorney Kristen Rees is prosecuting the case.
corruption MCALLEN, TX—Susana Munguia, 60, and Lubina Pedraza, 53, both of Hidalgo, have pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery, announced U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson. Munguia and Pedraza were former officials with the City of Hidalgo Housing Authority who worked directly with the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)’s Housing Choice Voucher Program (HCVP). Munguia was the executive director and Pedraza was a secretary. From July 2011 to May 2014, Munguia and Pedraza admitted they used their positions as public officials to engage in a bribery scheme. The two women solicited and received bribes in exchange for allowing individuals to skip the Section 8 waitlist and immediately obtain housing assistance from the HCVP. Individuals paid, directly or through a third party, a monetary bribe to Munguia and Pedraza in order to bypass the waitlist system and to receive immediate approval to obtain vouchers for housing subsidies under the HCVP. Munguia supervised and Pedraza was responsible for assigning housing to the payee or beneficiary and issued checks to subsidize their rent payments. After Munguia and Pedraza received the bribe, the paying party (or the person for whom payment was made), would immediately receive their subsidized housing. As part of their guilty plea today, Munguia and Pedraza have agreed to forfeit approximately $14,497 in illicit proceeds. Judge Micaela Alvarez accepted the pleas today and has set sentencing for Sept. 24, 2015, at 2:00 p.m. At that time each woman faces up to five years for their bribery conspiracy conviction. They were permitted to remain on bond pending their sentencing. The investigation leading to the charges was conducted by HUD-Office of Inspector General and the FBI. Assistant U.S. Attorney Kristen Rees is prosecuting the case.
corruption TRENTON, NJ—A Hopewell, New Jersey, woman was sentenced today to 37 months in prison for bribing a former Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) supervisory engineer at the VA’s campus in East Orange, New Jersey, in order to fraudulently obtain $6 million in construction contracts, including those reserved for service-disabled, veteran owned small businesses, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Donna Doremus, 47, previously pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Mary L. Cooper to three counts of a four-count information charging her with one count of bribing a public official, one count of conspiracy to defraud the United States and two counts of making and subscribing to false federal tax returns. Judge Cooper imposed the sentence today in Trenton federal court. According to documents filed in this case and statements made in court: The bribes were paid in connection with VA contracts awarded to companies Doremus owned. She also admitted to a conspiracy to defraud the United States by falsely representing that one of her companies was owned and controlled by a service-disabled veteran. From 2007 to July 2012, Doremus paid approximately $671,000 in bribes to a former VA official, Jarod Machinga, 45, also of Hopewell, in connection with VA contracts awarded to three companies she owned and controlled. In his position as a supervisory engineer, Machinga had the authority and influence to direct certain VA construction contracts to particular companies. Machinga directed more than $6 million of VA construction projects to Doremus’ companies. One of Doremus’s companies, Tyro General Construction (Tyro), entered into a service-disabled, veteran-owned small business contract with the VA. Congress has established a program whereby certain VA contracts are reserved for small businesses that are owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans. Doremus conspired with Machinga to falsely represent to the VA that Tyro was a service-disabled, veteran-owned small business so that Tyro could improperly obtain a lucrative construction contract from the VA. Machinga then used his official position and influence at the VA to award such a contract to Tyro. In total, Tyro was paid more than $3 million by the VA in connection with this service-disabled veteran-owned contract. For tax years 2009 and 2010, Doremus falsely reported that certain bribe payments she made to Machinga, as well some personal expenditures, were her companies’ business expenses. As a result, she failed to pay $250,374 in federal income taxes that she owed the IRS. In addition to the prison term, Judge Cooper ordered Doremus to serve one year of supervised release. Restitution will be determined at a hearing on Aug. 26, 2015. As part of her plea, she agreed to a forfeiture money judgment of $671,975. On Sept.18, 2013, Machinga pleaded guilty before Judge Cooper in connection with his accepting kickbacks from Doremus and engaging in a scheme to defraud the VA. He was sentenced to 46 months in prison on June 30, 2015. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the Department of Veterans Affairs, Office of Inspector General, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Jeffrey Hughes; the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Richard M. Frankel; and IRS-Criminal Investigation, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Jonathan D. Larsen, with the investigation leading to today’s sentencing. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Vikas Khanna of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division and Peter Gaeta of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Unit in Newark.
corruption An Army National Guard official was sentenced today to 42 months in prison for accepting a $30,000 bribe in exchange for steering a $3.6 million contract to a retired sergeant major of the Minnesota Army National Guard and his consulting company. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Dana J. Boente of the Eastern District of Virginia, Acting U.S. Attorney Kelly T. Currie of the Eastern District of New York, Assistant Director in Charge Andrew McCabe of the FBI’s Washington Field Office, Acting Special Agent in Charge Paul Sternal of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS) Mid-Atlantic Field Office and Director Frank Robey of the U.S. Army Criminal Investigative Command’s Major Procurement Fraud Unit (Army-CID) made the announcement. Jason Rappoccio, 39, of Hampton, South Carolina, pleaded guilty on Feb. 3, 2015, to one count of conspiracy to commit bribery and one count of bribery. U.S. District Judge Liam O’Grady of the Eastern District of Virginia imposed the sentence and ordered Rappoccio to forfeit $31,328. Rappoccio was an active duty sergeant first class in the Army National Guard. In connection with his guilty plea, Rappoccio admitted to accepting a $30,000 bribe from Timothy Bebus, a retired sergeant major of the Minnesota Army National Guard and owner of Mil-Team Consulting and Solutions LLC (Mil-Team). In exchange, Rappoccio agreed to steer a $3.6 million contract to Mil-Team by awarding the contract to a Small Business Administration (SBA) 8(a) certified company, chosen by Bebus, that Rappoccio understood would sub-contract a portion of the work to Mil-Team. Rappoccio admitted that the $30,000 bribe was structured to conceal the payment. Specifically, Bebus gave $6,000 in cash directly to Rappoccio, and the remaining $24,000 was paid in a cashier’s check in the name of Rappoccio’s wife. Rappoccio also admitted to accepting additional benefits in exchange for steering an additional $4 million contract to Mil-Team. In particular, Rappoccio solicited and received from Bebus airline tickets for two of Rappoccio’s family members. He also received NFL tickets worth over $1,300 from another co-conspirator. In connection with this investigation into corruption within the National Guard Bureau, eight others, including Bebus, have been convicted of offenses related to the awarding of millions of dollars of Army National Guard marketing, retention and recruitment contracts. The investigation is ongoing. The case was investigated by the FBI’s Washington Field Office, with assistance from DCIS’s Mid-Atlantic Field Office and Army-CID’s Expeditionary Fraud Resident Agency’s Major Procurement Fraud Unit. The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorney Alison L. Anderson of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section, Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Fahey of the Eastern District of Virginia and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Marisa Seifan and Martin Coffey of the Eastern District of New York.
corruption LAFAYETTE, LA—United States Attorney Stephanie A. Finley announced today that five defendants were sentenced for their roles in a pay-for-plea scheme that garnered favorable treatment for defendants charged with various state crimes. Barna D. Haynes, 61; Greg Williams, 46; and Sandra Degeyter, 63, all of Lafayette were sentenced by U.S. District Judge Elizabeth E. Foote on one count of conspiracy to commit bribery. Denease Curry, 49, of Broussard, and Elaine Crump, 61 of Lafayette, were also sentenced by Foote on one count of misprision of a felony for failure to report bribes offered and received by employees of the 15th Judicial District Attorney’s Office. Hanyes, Williams and Curry were former employees District Attorney’s Office. Degeyter and Crump were former employees of Acadiana Outreach. For sentencing details see the graphic below: Defendants Prison Term Supervised Release Probation Fine Community Service Home Confinement Haynes 18 months 1 year $5,000 Williams 2 years 6 months Degeyter 2 years 6 months Curry 2 years 200 hours Crump 2 years 200 hours According to the guilty pleas, the defendants conspired with Lafayette private investigator Robert Williamson, 64, who is not licensed to practice law, to move cases through the legal system. From March 2008 to February 2012, Williamson solicited thousands of dollars from individuals with pending criminal charges in the 15th Judicial District and promised them favorable resolutions to pending felony and misdemeanor cases, the majority of which were OWI cases. The favorable resolutions were obtained by improperly manipulating the procedures set forth in Louisiana Criminal Code of Louisiana Procedure Article 894. Article 894 provides a process by which a person can initially plead guilty to a crime with the understanding that the conviction will be set aside if the person successfully completes certain requirements imposed during a probationary period. The District Attorney’s Office had previously established a process by which select defendants could receive what was referred to as “immediate 894 pleas” on OWI cases. In order to qualify for the immediate 894 plea, the charged individuals were required to provide certifications at the time of the plea stating that they had completed all legal prerequisites, including community service, a substance abuse program and a driver safety program. If the District Attorney authorized the immediate 894 plea, the case was not placed on any docket, and the defendant was allowed to plead at a time and place different than the normal OWI docket. Following the entry of the immediate 894 plea, the judge would grant the 894 motion, dismissing the conviction, which served as an acquittal, thereby enabling those OWI defendants to immediately reinstate their driving privileges with no record. Defendant Williamson charged individuals as much as $5,000 to participate in the Article 894 process. He also paid bribes in cash and other things of value to employees of the 15th Judicial District Attorney’s Office, who included Haynes, who at the time worked as the administrative assistant to the district attorney; Williams, who was an assistant district attorney; and Curry, who was Williams’ secretary and assisted Haynes with the Williamson cases. Williamson also paid bribes in cash and other things of value to employees of other organizations associated with the OWI program, including Acadiana Outreach, where Crump and Degeyter were formerly employed. Williamson obtained false and fraudulent certifications from Acadiana Outreach, which certified that his clients completed court-ordered community service when in fact the individuals had not. Beginning in 2008, Haynes began transferring Williamson’s “clients” from city court to district court. Specifically, if one of Williamson’s clients was scheduled to appear in city court, Haynes transferred the case to district court and scheduled the case to be resolved during one of the “immediate 894 sessions.” Haynes also prepared the expungement paperwork associated with Williamson’s clients and was paid $500 for each case. During the course of the conspiracy, Haynes received at least $55,000 from Williamson. Williams, Assistant District Attorney for the 15th Judicial District, handled immediate 894 pleas and received bribes for his role in the scheme. Beginning in 2010, he was aware of Haynes and Williamson’s arrangement to place cases into district court to be heard as part of the 894 sessions and that Williamson was not an attorney. Williamson gave Williams payments to include $500 cash, an autographed New Orleans Saints hat, bicycles for Williams and his family members, and clothing for Williams. Sometime beginning in 2010, Curry became aware that Haynes and Williamson were using the immediate 894 pleas for favorable disposition of certain cases, mostly OWIs. Curry began helping to coordinate the immediate 894 sessions and would contact the judge’s chambers to set up the sessions. Curry also prepared Williams’ files for the sessions. After Haynes took an extended medical leave in 2010, Williamson paid Curry $200 for each case for a total of $1,600. Beginning in 2008, Degeyter, agreed to provide false and fraudulent Acadiana Outreach community service certificates to Williamson in exchange for money. The fraudulent certificates falsely confirmed that Williamson’s clients completed court-ordered community service. Williamson paid Degeyter $100 per certificate. Degeyter admitted producing more than 50 false certificates between the spring of 2008 and October 2009. She received between $5,000 and $10,000 in bribes. Crump, who was also employed as a case manager at Acadiana Outreach, was asked by Degeyter to assist with continuing the scheme. The two agreed that Degeyter would continue to create fraudulent Acadiana Outreach community service certificates, and in exchange for cash payments, Crump would permit Degeyter to sign Crump’s name on the fraudulent certificates. Degeyter began providing cash payments to Crump, from $25 to $100, which was a portion of what Degeyter received from Williamson. Shortly after Crump was laid off from Acadiana Outreach in September 2011, Degeyter and Crump agreed that Degeyter would continue creating additional certificates and sign Crump’s name on them backdating the documents to dates within Crump’s employment at Acadiana Outreach. She received between $1,000 and $2,000 in bribes. “These public servants and employees decided that money mattered more than justice, safety and their duty to serve the public,” said Finley. “I hope these convictions send a message that the facilitation of schemes like this are not worth it. I want to thank all of the prosecutors, agents and law enforcement who worked diligently on this case. Their hard work is to be commended for assisting in putting an end to this OWI scheme.” Williamson pleaded guilty June 8, 2015, and faces a maximum penalty of five years in prison for one count of conspiracy to commit bribery, 10 years in prison for one count of bribery, and five years in prison for one count of Social Security fraud. He also faces a $250,000 fine or both with up to three years of supervised release for each count. Sentencing date is September 25, 2015. The FBI and the Social Security Administration—Office of Inspector General conducted the investigation. Assistant U.S. Attorneys John Luke Walker and Robert C. Abendroth are prosecuting the case.
corruption RICHMOND, VA—Dana J. Boente, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, provided the below statement regarding today’s opinion issued by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit: “We are pleased with today’s ruling affirming the conviction of former Virginia governor Robert F. McDonnell. I would like to thank the appellate team for their efforts on this very challenging case: Assistant U.S. Attorneys Richard D. Cooke, Michael S. Dry, Jessica D. Aber, Ryan S. Faulconer, and Deputy Chief David V. Harbach II of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section. I would also like to thank special agents with the FBI’s Richmond Division, the Virginia State Police, and IRS-Criminal Investigations for their hard work and commitment to this case.” Robert F. McDonnell, 60, of Glen Allen, Virginia, was sentenced Jan. 6, 2015, to two years in prison, followed by two years of supervised release, for soliciting and obtaining payments, loans, gifts and other items from Star Scientific, a Virginia-based corporation, and Jonnie R. Williams Sr., Star Scientific’s then chief executive officer, in violation of federal public corruption laws. A copy of this press release and others related to this case may be found on the website of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia or on PACER by searching for Case No.3:14cr12.
corruption JOHNSTOWN, PA—After deliberating approximately two hours, a jury of four men and eight women found Ronald W. Repak guilty of violating federal extortion and bribery laws, United States Attorney David J. Hickton announced today, Thursday, July 9, 2015, Repak, 63, of Johnstown, Pa, was tried before United States District Judge Kim R. Gibson in Johnstown. According to Assistant United States Attorney Stephanie L. Haines who prosecuted the case, evidence presented at trial established that Repak, while serving as Executive Director of the Johnstown Redevelopment Authority (JRA), engaged in conduct in violation of the Hobbs Act for extortion under color of official right, and engaged in acts of federal program bribery. Specifically, in exchange for Repak’s official actions and influence as the Executive Director of the JRA to facilitate the award of JRA contracting work, Repak solicited and obtained from local contracting firms a new roof for his personal residence and building demolition and grading services at Evolution Gym, his son’s privately-owned business. He was convicted of two counts for extortion under color of official right and two counts of federal program bribery relative to the roof and the Evolution Gym. Mr. Repak was found not guilty of a charge of extortion under color of official right and federal program bribery in relation to multiple Pittsburgh Steelers football game tickets. Judge Gibson scheduled sentencing for Dec. 8, 2015, at 10 a.m. Based upon the convictions handed down by the jury, the law provides for a maximum total sentence of 60 years in prison, a fine of $1,000,000, or both. Under the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, the actual sentence imposed would be based upon the seriousness of the offenses and the prior criminal history, if any, of the defendant. The Laurel Highlands Resident Agency of the Federal Bureau of Investigation conducted the investigation that led to the prosecution of Repak.
corruption HOUSTON—Michelle Robyn Freytag, 47, of Missouri City, has pleaded guilty to defrauding her former employer—a Houston businessman—of more than $1.3 million, announced U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson. Freytag was hired in April 2009 to be her employer’s executive assistant. As part of her guilty plea today, she has admitted that as early as August 2009, she began misusing her position and her access to his credit card and banking information. She arranged for credit cards to be assigned in her name but under her employer’s various accounts at Whitney National Bank. As the executive assistant, Freytag was able to arrange for her personal expenditures to be satisfied with monies from bank accounts assigned to her employer or his other companies. Over the next four years, Freytag repeated this process and obtained, without authorization from her employer, at least four additional Whitney Bank credit cards in his name, his spouse’s name and in the name of two of his other companies. Freytag obtained these credit cards by falsely representing to Whitney Bank that her employer had authorized the issuance of these cards or by falsely representing that certain previously issued credit cards had allegedly been lost and that replacements were requested by her employer or his spouse. Freytag used these credit cards to take cash advances and to make personal expenditures. She would then cause these cash advances and personal expenditures to be satisfied with monies from bank accounts assigned to her employer or his other businesses. According to the plea agreement, Freytag’s unauthorized cash advances and personal expenditures between August 2009 and January 2014, when her scheme was discovered, totaled approximately $1.3 million. U.S. District Judge Keith P. Ellison accepted the guilty plea on one count of wire fraud today and has set sentencing for Sept. 29, 2015. At that time, Freytag faces up to 20 years in federal prison and a possible $250,000 maximum fine. The investigation was conducted by the FBI. Assistant U.S. Attorney Jason Varnado is prosecuting the case.
corruption ALEXANDRIA, VA—Frank Michael Pearson, 44, a former Loudon County Sheriff’s Deputy from Winchester, Virginia, was indicted by a federal grand jury today on four counts of theft concerning programs receiving federal benefits in relation to his alleged embezzlement of over $200,000 from the asset forfeiture fund at the Loudon County Sheriff’s Office. Dana J. Boente, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, and David J. LeValley, Special Agent in Charge of the Criminal Division, FBI Washington Field Office, announced the charges after the grand jury returned the indictment today. An arraignment has been scheduled for July 24, 2015 at 9 a.m. before U.S. District Judge T. S. Ellis, III. Pearson faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison on each count if convicted. The maximum statutory sentence is prescribed by Congress and is provided here for informational purposes, as the sentencing of the defendant will be determined by the court based on the advisory Sentencing Guidelines and other statutory factors. According to the indictment, beginning in 2006 Pearson was designated as the deputy responsible for overseeing the asset forfeiture program for the Loudon County Sheriff’s Office. The indictment further alleges that from in or about 2010 through in or about 2013, Pearson embarked on a scheme to embezzle and steal money totaling in excess of $200,000, which had been entrusted to him in connection with the program. The indictment further alleges that Pearson concealed his embezzlement scheme by making false statements to his coworkers and others about the timing and fact of whether he had deposited seized money into an escrow account maintained by the Loudoun County Sheriff’s Office at a local bank. This case was investigated by the FBI’s Washington Field Office and the Virginia State Police. The Loudon County Sheriff’s Office cooperated with the investigation. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Matthew Burke and Mark D. Lytle are prosecuting the case. Criminal indictments are only charges and not evidence of guilt. A defendant is presumed to be innocent until and unless proven guilty. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia or on PACER by searching for Case No. 1:15cr193.
corruption GREENVILLE, NC—United States Attorney Thomas G. Walker announced today that, STEPHEN A. LAROQUE, 51, of Kinston, North Carolina, was sentenced to 24 months’ imprisonment followed by two years of supervised release. The sentence relates to his theft and embezzlement of hundreds of thousands of dollars from a non-profit of which he served as the Executive Director. Additionally, LAROQUE was ordered to pay $300,000 in criminal restitution to the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and was fined $5,000. On January 26, 2015, LAROQUE pled guilty to one count of theft, embezzlement, and misapplication of $150,000 in USDA funds that had been loaned to East Carolina Development Company (“ECDC”), a nonprofit organization based in Kinston, North Carolina. LAROQUE served as Executive Director of ECDC, which was created to provide loans to small rural businesses using federal funds. LAROQUE used his fiduciary position as head of the non-profit to steal and embezzle the federal funds. As part of his plea,LAROQUE agreed to pay back $300,000 in criminal proceeds to the USDA. According to the Indictment in this case, LAROQUE accomplished his $300,000 theft through four disbursements made by ECDC under the guise of loans to LAROQUE’s wholly-owned company, LaRoque Management Group (LMG). A review of bank records established that such funds were funneled throughLMG and then used for LAROQUE’S personal benefit, including his investment in an ice skating rink in Greenville and the purchase of rental property in Kinston. On June 7, 2013, after a three-week trail, a jury found LAROQUE guilty on each of the twelve counts. Later, the court granted a new trial based on an issue regarding a juror’s Internet research during deliberations. The guilty plea came less than a week prior to the second trial. Investigation of this case was conducted by the Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation, the United States Department of Agriculture, Office of Inspector General-Investigations, Raleigh Office, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorneys, Dennis M. Duffy and Adam F. Hulbig prosecuted the case.
corruption ROME, GA—Former Murray County, Georgia, Chief Magistrate Judge Bryant L. Cochran has been sentenced to federal prison for orchestrating the false arrest of a woman who had been sexually propositioned by Cochran, for tampering with a witness, for sexually assaulting a county employee, and for illegally searching a county employee’s personal cell phone. “Cochran completely abused the trust given to him by the good citizens of Murray County,” said Acting United States Attorney John A. Horn. “Cochran used the power of the bench to victimize a citizen seeking justice and to exploit his staff. There is no greater breakdown in the justice system than when the judge himself violates other citizens’ rights to simply advantage himself.” “This sentencing concludes a lengthy investigation that not only ended the career of former Murray County Chief Magistrate Judge Cochran, but also the careers of two Murray County law enforcement officers,” said J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office. “While the criminal actions of these individuals are disheartening, in the end, truth and justice prevailed.” “Being in a position to uphold and enforce the law does not mean you are above the law,” said Vernon Keenan, Director, Georgia Bureau of Investigation. “The GBI will continue to work with the FBI and the U.S. Attorney’s office to investigate and hold accountable those who are involved in corruption, regardless of their position.” According to Acting U.S. Attorney Horn, the charges, and other information presented in court: From January 1, 2004, to August 15, 2012, Bryant Cochran served as the Chief Magistrate Judge in Murray County, Georgia. In that position, on April 9, 2012, Cochran met with a female citizen regarding a routine legal matter. During the meeting, Cochran made inappropriate sexual advances towards the citizen, including an offer to trade sex for a favorable legal ruling. By mid-July 2012, the allegations of Cochran’s sexual misconduct towards the citizen had become public and gained significant media coverage. In response, Cochran called at least six local and state police officers providing them with a so-called “tip”—that the citizen carried drugs in her vehicle. Cochran also encouraged several of the police officers to stop the citizen because pulling her over would assist Cochran and would dissipate the heat caused by her complaint. In a further effort to discredit the citizen, Cochran conspired with Clifford J. Joyce (who was Cochran’s tenant) to have the citizen framed for drug possession. Specifically, on or about August 12, 2012, Joyce planted a metal tin containing five packets of methamphetamine under the fender of the citizen’s car. Two days later, on August 14, 2012, Murray County Sheriff’s Office Deputy Joshua Greeson (who has since been convicted of witness tampering) conducted a traffic stop on a car occupied by the citizen. During the traffic stop, several officers and a police drug dog searched the car for approximately ten minutes—but did not find any drugs. Thereafter, Captain Michael Henderson, who is Cochran’s cousin and who has also been convicted of witness tampering, had an approximately two-minute telephone conversation with Cochran. Following that call, Henderson told an officer at the scene that according to his information; the citizen hid her drugs in a magnetic box under the left, rear tire well. Upon receiving that information, Greeson found the metal box magnetically attached to the car in that precise location. Inside the box, Greeson recovered five small packets containing methamphetamine. Greeson then told the citizen that he had recovered drugs from her car. At that point, the citizen stated that she had been set up by Judge Cochran or Joyce. Despite this, Greeson arrested the citizen and transported her to jail. On August 15, 2012, the day after the arrest, Cochran resigned his position as Murray County’s Chief Magistrate Judge. On August 22, 2012, Joyce admitted to law enforcement officers that he planted drugs—after which the local District Attorney dismissed the charges against the woman. Finally, in an apparent effort to cover up the framing of the woman, Cochran tried to persuade a witness to provide false information to law enforcement officers. As the Chief Magistrate Judge, Cochran also sexually assaulted a Murray County court employee and unlawfully searched the personal cellular telephone of another Murray County employee. On May 13, 2014, a federal grand jury indicted Cochran, 45, of Chatsworth, Georgia for: (1) conspiracy against rights; (2) deprivation of rights under color of law, (3) conspiracy to distribute a controlled substance, and (4) tampering with a witness. The trial of Cochran began on December 2, 2014, and on December 11, 2014, the jury returned guilty verdicts on all counts (after one day of deliberations). Bryant L. Cochran was sentenced to five years in prison, followed by three years of supervised release, and 100 hours of community service. This case also resulted in the following convictions: On December 13, 2013, Clifford J. Joyce, of Murray County, Ga., was sentenced to one year, six months in prison for conspiring to distribute a controlled substance. On October 30, 2013, Michael Henderson, of Murray County, Ga., was sentenced to one year and one day in prison for tampering with a witness. On September 25, 2013, Joshua Greeson, of Murray County, Ga., was sentenced to 10 months in prison for tampering with a witness. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Georgia Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorneys Jeffrey W. Davis and William L. McKinnon, Jr. prosecuted the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.PressEmails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the home page for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Rome Division is http://www.justice.gov/usao-ndga.
corruption ST. LOUIS, MO—The mayor of Pine Lawn, Missouri, Sylvester Caldwell, was sentenced to 33 months in prison on charges involving the extortion of cash payments from the owner of a local towing company and from the owner of a Pine Lawn convenience store. In addition to the prison sentence, he was also ordered to pay $5500 restitution. According to court documents, from December 2013 through April 2014, FBI agents were conducting an ongoing public corruption investigation into the activities of Sylvester Caldwell, who was Mayor of the City of Pine Lawn. As Mayor, he exercised authority and control over which towing company provided the primary towing service for the City. During the public corruption investigation, the owner of a towing company, who was cooperating with the FBI, met with Mayor Caldwell on several occasions for the purpose of making cash payments to the Mayor in order to remain as the primary towing service for Pine Lawn. On at least five occasions, Mayor Caldwell met with the tow company owner at various locations and accepted cash payments in exchange for continuing to give work to the towing company. At times Mayor Caldwell used coded language when requesting the cash payments. For example, he commanded the tow company owner to place “green Mountain Dew in a cup,” which was code for directing that the cash be placed in a disposable cup. He also induced payments by threatening to use a competing towing company. From at least February 2013 through September 2014, Mayor Caldwell also extorted numerous payments of money from the owner of a convenience store known as Pine Lawn Market. He attempted to disguise the payments as donations to the City of Pine Lawn. The owner paid the money to Mayor Caldwell out of fear that the Mayor would make trouble for the store. The owner of the store also allowed him to take goods from the store out of fear that his business could suffer economic harm if he refused. Caldwell, 55, Florissant, pled guilty in April to one count of attempted extortion and one count of extortion before United States District Judge Catherine D. Perry. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorneys Reginald Harris and Anthony Franks handled the case for the U.S. Attorney’s Office.
corruption KANSAS CITY, MO—Tammy Dickinson, United States Attorney for the Western District of Missouri, and Chris Koster, Missouri Attorney General, announced that the former Harrison County, Mo., prosecuting attorney was sentenced in federal court today for stealing more than $540,000 from an elderly client. Richard F. Turner, 40, of Bethany, Mo., was sentenced by U.S. District Judge David G. Kays to three years and nine months in federal prison without parole. The court also ordered Turner to pay restitution to his former client, followed by restitution payments to the Internal Revenue Service and the Missouri Department of Revenue. Turner has already made two restitution payments to his former client totaling $193,753. Turner, an attorney, is the former elected county prosecutor of Harrison County and he was re-elected on Nov. 4, 2014. On Nov. 26, 2014, Turner pleaded guilty to one count of wire fraud and one count of false statements on his tax return. Turner admitted that from Oct. 12, 2004 to May 29, 2014, he fraudulently attempted to obtain at least $728,147, and he did obtain at least $540,803, from an elderly client. He spent the money on personal expenses not authorized by his client, the client’s trust agreements, or his power of attorney, including paying off his home mortgage, putting in a swimming pool, and spending heavily at retail establishments and restaurants in Bethany, St. Joseph, and Kansas City, Mo., including to support his clothing store, Richard’s / TD Clothiers, in Bethany. Debits included 20 payments to Turner’s law firm from August 2011 to March 2014 totaling $39,936. Turner also admitted that he failed to pay taxes on the embezzled income, causing additional loss to the state and federal government of at least approximately $154,453. On Oct. 12, 2004, a Durable Power of Attorney (DPOA) was created for Dorothy Bush, naming Turner as her attorney-in-fact. The DPOA specified that it, “shall become effective ONLY upon (Bush’s) subsequent incapacity ...” The DPOA granted Turner the ability to conduct financial transactions and pay taxes on behalf of Bush, and to conduct business in which she is an interested party. On May 10, 2010, Bush became a resident at the Crestview Home, a skilled nursing facility in Bethany. Records reflect that she was suffering short-term memory impairment at the time of her admission. Embezzlement Scheme Through his plea, Turner admitted that from 2005 to 2011, his income diminished but his spending increased. On Jan. 19, 2011, Turner received a foreclosure notice for his residence. On Jan. 31, 2011, Turner filed for Chapter 13 bankruptcy protection in the Western District of Missouri. On March 3, 2011, Turner caused to be created the Dorothy A. Bush Revocable Trust, naming Bush as the “Settler,” and himself as the “Trustee.” At the time, according to the plea agreement, Bush was suffering from memory problems. The trust appears to have been signed by Bush; however, Turner notarized the signature himself. No other witnesses were listed. The trust authorized the trustee to make payments from the trust assets for the “care, maintenance and comfort” of Bush. It allowed the trustee to sell assets, invest funds, sell property, pay debts, and to act “generally in the management of the trust estate to do all acts and things which he/she deems for the best interests of the trust.” Turner was not himself a beneficiary under the terms of the trust, nor was he authorized under the trust to make personal expenditures. Upon Bush’s death, the trust provided for the distribution of her remaining assets to various persons and charitable organizations, including family members, friends, the Salvation Army, Masonic Home of Missouri, Northwest Missouri State University, and multiple churches. One week after the trust was set up, on March 10, 2011, doctors declared Bush incapacitated. In the summer of 2011, Turner made arrangements to sell Bush’s farmland, while intending to embezzle some or all of the proceeds. On July 12, 2011, Turner’s bankruptcy case was dismissed on his own motion. On July 29, 2011, Turner opened an individual checking account for Bush at Farmers Bank of Northern Missouri and deposited a $576,329 check from Missouri Land Title Company from the proceeds of the sale of Bush’s farmland. On Aug. 12, 2011, Turner wire transferred $370,000 from Bush’s account at Farmer’s Bank to Bank of America to fund a new checking account. The outgoing wire transfer sheet stated the reason for the transfer as, “Funding a new trust for Dorothy,” but the account was held solely in Turner’s name. On Aug. 16, 2011, he made a $2,631 purchase at Best Buy. On Aug. 17, 2011, he made a $2,882 payment to Chase Automotive. Out of his Bank of America account, Turner paid almost $300,000 to his various personal creditors, including Discover, Bank Northwest, Chase Automotive Finance, and Best Buy. This included the purchase of a $279,967 cashier’s check, which he used on Aug. 22, 2011 to pay off his home mortgage loan. He spent much of the remaining money on daily living and entertainment expenses for himself, and for his struggling business, Richard’s / TD Clothiers. On July 13, 2012, Turner wired another $12,760 from Farmer’s Bank to his Bank of America account. On Aug. 15, 2013, he wired in another $13,560. On Sept. 21, 2012, Turner cashed in two certificates of deposit held solely by Bush. On Sept. 21, 2012, Turner then wired the proceeds, $106,127, to his Bank of America account. Also on Sept. 21, with a debit card on his Bank of America account, Turner spent $2,530 at Wal-Mart in Bethany. On Sept. 22, he spent $3,617 at O’Neils Home Furnishing in Bethany. In July and November 2012, Turner also spent $13,316 on a swimming pool, also taken from Bush’s funds. In all, from Aug. 16, 2011, to Dec. 17, 2013, Turner debited $520,137 from his Bank of America account, resulting in a negative balance of (-$85.75) on Dec. 21, 2013. A total of $327,400 went to pay off and improve Turner’s home, including for the swimming pool. He spent $22,843 at Wal-Mart, $14,667 on retail electronics, $8,430 to pay off his credit cards, $13,324 on automotive expenses (including maintenance for his 2005 GMC Hummer), $9,516 on fuel and convenience stores, $5,805 at restaurants, $6,546 on travel, and $19,014 on clothing, including for items to sell in his store, Richard’s / TD Clothiers. From Nov. 25 to 26, 2013, Turner used a check in the amount of $147,752, issued from Bush’s account at Farmers Bank, to open a U.S. Bank account in the name of Dorothy A. Bush Revocable Trust, Richard F. Turner Trustee. The referenced check is signed by Turner as the POA, with, “transfer to Trust estate,” written in the memo section. Signature cards for the new U.S. Bank account list Turner as the sole signer on the account. Dorothy A. Bush Revocable Trust account statements from Nov. 26, 2013, through Feb. 21, 2014, show numerous debits from this account, most of which were conducted via debit card. The debit card usage appears typical of day-to-day purchases, including groceries, dining, gas, and movies. Of note are three debits to the “Turner Law Firm” totaling $1,789. The account balance on Feb. 21, 2014, was $130,553. From Dec. 12, 2013, through March 10, 2014, Turner spent approximately $20,616 from the account. These debits included four payments to Turner’s law firm from December 2013 to March 2014 for $2,539. On March 11, 2014, the bank froze the trust account and contacted law enforcement. On March 21, 2014, Turner opened another account in Bush’s name at Farmers Bank of Northern Missouri. For the initial deposit, he transferred the entire balance of $61,707 from a business money market account that Bush had opened in 1998. On March 18, 2014, Turner opened an account at the Edward Jones office in Bethany in the name of “Dorothy A Bush Revocable Trust” with Turner as trustee and sole signer on the account. Turner caused a $41,686 starter check drawn on the new Famers Bank account to be deposited to the account at Edward Jones. Turner also attempted to transfer the remaining funds ($125,635) from the frozen trust account at U.S. Bank to the Edward Jones account. The transfer was denied due to the holds that U.S. Bank placed on the account. Tax Scheme During this timeframe, Turner maintained a legal practice, a private probation business, a legal services business and a retail clothing business. Turner filed federal individual income tax returns using the filing status single for tax years 2011 (paper) and 2012 (electronic). According to the plea agreement, Turner claimed $0 taxable income in 2011 (he listed adjusted gross income as $11,116) and 2012 (he listed adjusted gross income as $2,944). The income reported is due to losses in some of his businesses that are offset by the gains made in the other businesses. Turner admitted that he knowingly and willfully did not pay federal or state income taxes on the embezzled funds from Bush. Turner self-prepared his 2011 and 2012 Form 1040. Turner admitted that he knowingly and willfully failed to report and pay income tax on the embezzled income of $370,000 in 2011 and $118,934 in 2012. Consequently, Turner has an estimated additional tax due and owing of $102,978 and $25,331 for tax years 2011 and 2012, respectively. Turner did not file or pay state income taxes for 2011 and 2012. =For 2011, Turner owed $20,424. For 2012, he owed $5,720. The total amount of federal and state tax liability still due and owing from 2011 and 2012 is $154,453. This case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel M. Nelson and Missouri Assistant Attorney General Joseph Schlotzhauer. It was investigated by the FBI, IRS-Criminal Investigation, The Missouri Division of Health and Senior Services, and the Missouri Department of Revenue.
corruption BALTIMORE, MD—Former Baltimore City Department of Public Works (DPW) employee Tamara Oliver Washington, age 55, of Baltimore, pleaded guilty today to conspiracy and to solicitation of bribes in connection with a 14 year scheme in which DPW employees sought and accepted cash payments from commercial haulers in return for allowing the commercial haulers to deposit trash at the Quarantine Road Landfill (Landfill) without paying the required disposal fees. The plea agreement was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Robert H. Pearre, Jr., Inspector General, City of Baltimore Office of Inspector General; Special Agent in Charge Thomas Jankowski of the Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation, Washington, D.C. Field Office; and Colonel William M. Pallozzi, Superintendent of the Maryland State Police. “Corrupt public employees rip off the taxpayers and undermine everyone’s faith in government,” said U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein. The DPW’s Bureau of Solid Waste is responsible for managing Baltimore City’s waste management services, including overseeing citizen drop-off centers, such as the Northwest Transfer Station (NWTS) and the Landfill. Baltimore City’s waste management system generates revenue for the City by collecting and selling recyclable scrap metal dumped at the City’s trash collection facilities. The City contracts with private salvage companies to purchase and remove scrap metal from its trash collection facilities. DPW employees at the Landfill and NWTS are required to place the recyclable scrap metal in separate bins provided by the salvage companies. The salvage companies regularly pick up the scrap metal and, based on predetermined prices per ton, the salvage companies pay the City for the value of the scrap metal. Baltimore City residents can deposit small amounts of trash and/or recyclables in dumpsters located near the main entrance of the Landfill, free of charge. Individuals or companies commercially hauling trash that have registered their vehicles with the City and obtained Landfill permits, as well as Baltimore City residents with larger loads, must deposit their trash in an open area located further within the Landfill. Commercial haulers of trash that meet certain vehicle weight limitations must, in addition to purchasing a Landfill permit, pay a waste disposal fee of $67.50 per ton of trash deposited at the Landfill. According to Washington’s plea agreement, Washington was a DPW employee assigned to the scale house at the Landfill. DPW employees assigned as scale house operators weigh each truck as it enters the Landfill, which is recorded on a computerized point-of-sale system. To activate the system and record a particular transaction, DPW employees must enter the tag number of the truck and a corresponding billing code. The scale house operators reweigh each truck as it leaves the Landfill. The net weight of the deposited trash and the required disposal fee is then calculated and printed on a receipt that is handed to the driver. Beginning in 2001, about three months after getting hired as a scale house operator at the Landfill, Washington started accepting bribe payments from small haulers in lieu of charging them the full disposal fee for using the Landfill. Beginning in 2002, about one year after being hired, Washington started accepting bribe payments from large haulers of trash in lieu of charging them the full disposal fee for using the Landfill. Washington and other scale house employees accepted $100 bribe payments from some haulers for each truckload of trash dumped at the Landfill. Washington participated in the bribery scheme for more than fourteen years, up until her arrest in May 2015. Washington and others concealed the bribery scheme by not entering a truck’s registration number into the computerized scale system, which meant the transaction was not recorded. Consequently, the transaction would not appear on the scale house’s daily logs and the commercial hauler would not be billed for using the Landfill on that particular occasion. To maintain the pretense that the trucks had been weighed and the disposal fee paid, Washington and others would hand the truck drivers fake or blank receipts when they crossed the outbound scale. In return, the commercial haulers either paid the $100 bribe through the outbound window at the scale house or met with the Defendant or another scale house operator at an off-site location to pay a week’s worth of bribes or more. The commercial haulers always paid the $100 bribes in cash. By paying the $100 bribes in lieu of the disposal fees, these haulers saved their businesses thousands of dollars each month, which, in turn, cost the City of Baltimore more than $6 million in revenue. From July 1, 2014 through May 1, 2015 alone, Washington accepted on her own behalf, and on behalf of other DPW employees, more than $40,000 in bribe payments from one individual in return for not charging the individual or his company the required waste disposal fees, which totaled approximately $120,000 during that period of time. Washington has agreed to pay restitution of $6 million. Washington faces a maximum sentence of five years in prison for the conspiracy and 10 years in prison for bribery. U.S. District Judge Marvin J. Garbis has scheduled sentencing for October 20, 2015, at 10:00 a.m. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI, IRS-CI, Baltimore Office of Inspector General, and Maryland State Police for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant United States Attorneys Martin J. Clarke and Gregory R. Bockin, who are prosecuting the case.
corruption BALTIMORE, MD—U.S. District Judge J. Frederick Motz sentenced former correctional officer Ashley Newton, age 31, of Baltimore, today to 51 months in prison, followed by three years of supervised release, for participating in a racketeering conspiracy and drug conspiracy, involving the smuggling of drugs and contraband inside the Baltimore City Detention Center (BCDC), and for money laundering conspiracy. Newton was convicted on February 5, 2015, after a more than two month long jury trial. The sentence was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Secretary Stephen T. Moyer of the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services (DPSCS); Baltimore Police Commissioner Anthony W. Batts; and Baltimore City State’s Attorney Marilyn Mosby. “Correctional officers were in bed with inmates, in violation of the first principle of prison management,” said U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein. “We remain committed to protecting the public, our employees, and the inmates by aggressively rooting out corruption. We applaud the work of the U.S. Attorney and all of our law enforcement partners in this ongoing effort,” said Secretary Stephen T. Moyer of the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services. According to trial testimony and court documents, BGF has been the dominant gang at the Baltimore City Detention Center (BCDC), and in several connected facilities, including the Baltimore Central Booking Intake Center, the Women’s Detention Center, which houses many men, and in the Jail Industries Building. Tavon White and other BGF leaders and members incarcerated at BCDC were involved with and often directed the smuggling of contraband into BCDC, including cell phones, tobacco and drugs, through the services of correctional officers (COs), who received payments, gifts, or a share of the profits. According to evidence presented at trial, Newton was a correctional officer (CO) at the BCDC who smuggled contraband into the jail for distribution by BGF inmates. In return, Newton and other COs received payments, gifts or a share of the profits. According to trial evidence and other court documents, Newton smuggled drugs and other contraband for a succession of BGF leaders starting as early as 2008. She had long-term sexual relationships with at least two BGF inmates, including Duron Young, a/k/a Pinky. Newton smuggled pills, marijuana and tobacco for Young, and during the conspiracy, Newton smuggled pills for Pinky almost daily. Newton also opened cells doors of inmates for BGF members. For example, on May 19, 2011, Newton opened a grill that allowed a large number of BGF inmates to attack and repeatedly stab an inmate. In 2012, Young became angry at another inmate, whose offense was that he was transporting a lot of contraband around the prison for people other than Young. Newton opened the door of the inmate’s section to permit Young to go in with another BGF gang member and beat up the inmate. Newton also warned the BGF of upcoming prison searches by correctional officers. Newton arranged for money to be sent to inmates and facilitated phone conversations between inmates, including calls from other prisons to BGF leader Tavon White. This case was developed as a result of the efforts of the Maryland Prison Task Force, formed in 2011 with the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services, local, state and federal law enforcement agencies, and prosecutors. The Task Force has met regularly for over three years, generating recommendations to reform prison procedures and producing leads that have been pursued by state, local and federal criminal investigators. Investigations are continuing. Forty of the 44 defendants charged in the racketeering conspiracy have been convicted, including 24 correctional officers. Thirty-five defendants pleaded guilty and five defendants were convicted after trial. Three defendants were acquitted and one defendant died. To date, 22 of the correctional officers, including Newton, have been sentenced to up to 51 months in prison. BGF leader Tavon White, age 37, pleaded guilty to his participation in the racketeering conspiracy and testified at the trial and was sentenced to 12 years in prison. Inmates and leaders in the BGF gang, Russell Carrington, a/k/ Rutt, age 34, and Joseph Young, a/k/a Monster, age 33, both of Baltimore, were convicted after trial and sentenced to 210 months in prison and 15 years in prison, respectively. U.S. Attorney Rosenstein recognized the efforts of the other members of the Maryland Prison Task Force, including: the Maryland State Police, Prince George’s County Police Department, United States Marshals Office, DEA, Washington-Baltimore High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area and Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI, Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services, Baltimore Police Department, and Maryland Prison Task Force, for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant United States Attorneys Robert R. Harding and Ayn B. Ducao, who are prosecuting this Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force case.
corruption U.S. Attorney Kenneth A. Polite announced that ARMER BRIGHT, 51, a resident of Baton Rouge and former employee of the Orleans Parish School Board (“OPSB”), pled guilty today to charges of conspiracy to commit bribery and honest services wire fraud. According to court documents, BRIGHT admitted that beginning in September 2013 and continuing until January 2015, he and others participated in a conspiracy to commit bribery and honest services wire fraud. BRIGHT admitted that he initiated a scheme to defraud Orleans Parish and its citizens of honest services through bribery and a kickback scheme, whereby IRA THOMAS, an Orleans Parish School Board member, used his public office and official capacity to provide favorable treatment, including attempting to facilitate the awarding of a contract, that was designed to benefit the business and financial interest of an individual who provided him with a bribe and kickback in the form of cash payment disguised as a campaign contribution. “Today’s guilty plea is the most recent—but not the last—example of our commitment to fighting public corruption,” said U.S. Attorney Polite. “Our investigation in this matter continues.” BRIGHT faces statutory penalties of up to five years in prison, a $250,000 fine and three years of supervised release. U.S. District Judge Susie Morgan set sentencing for September 23, 2015 at 2:00 p.m.. U.S. Attorney Polite praised the work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in investigating this matter. Assistant U.S. Attorney Sean Toomey is in charge of the prosecution.
corruption DALLAS—Two individuals associated with the public corruption investigation of Dallas County Commissioner John Wiley Price, one of whom was indicted last July with Commissioner Price, pleaded guilty before U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul D. Stickney this morning, through plea agreements and factual resumes, to federal offenses, announced John Parker, Acting U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Texas Christian Lloyd Campbell, 45, of Oklahoma, a consultant who, through his company, Christian Consulting Group, provided consulting services for businesses pursuing public and private sector contracts, pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit bribery concerning a local government receiving federal benefits, as was charged in the indictment. Campbell faces a maximum statutory penalty of five years in federal prison and a $250,000 fine. However, according to the plea agreement filed, if the Court accepts the plea, the parties agree that the maximum term of imprisonment shall be no more than 36 months. Karen Manning, 49, of Dallas, who owned the Millennium 2000 art gallery in Dallas, which among other things, according to the factual resume filed, sold African art for Commissioner Price, pleaded guilty to an Information filed today charging one count of subscribing to a false and fraudulent U.S. individual income tax return. She faces a maximum statutory penalty of three years in federal prison and a $250,000 fine. A factual resume is a statement of facts that support a defendant’s guilty plea. All persons named in Campbell and Manning’s factual resumes are entitled to the presumption of innocence until proven guilty. Sentencing dates were not set. The Federal Bureau of Investigation and Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation are conducting the investigation. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Walt M. Junker and J. Nicholas Bunch and Deputy Criminal Chief Assistant U.S. Attorney Katherine Miller are prosecuting.
corruption Preet Bharara, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, announced that former New York State Senate leader MALCOM SMITH was sentenced today to seven years in prison for bribing New York City Republican Party leaders, including Queens County Republican Party Vice Chairman VINCENT TABONE, as part of a scheme to allow SMITH, a Democrat, to run as a Republican candidate for New York City Mayor in 2013 and for his role in obtaining New York State funding for a real estate project in Spring Valley, New York, in exchange for cash bribes paid on his behalf to the New York City Republican Party officials. TABONE was sentenced to 42 months in prison for receiving bribes and witness tampering. Both were convicted after a three-and-a-half week jury trial before U.S. District Judge Kenneth M. Karas, who imposed today’s sentences. Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said: “Bribes and kickbacks should never play a role in the selection of candidates for public office. By attempting to buy and sell a spot on New York City’s Mayoral ballot, Malcolm Smith and Vincent Tabone corrupted one of the most fundamental tenets of the democratic process, that candidates cannot bribe their way onto a ballot. Today’s sentences make clear that the cost of violating the public trust in this way will be measured in years in a federal prison.” According to the Complaint and the Indictment filed in federal court and the evidence presented at trial: The Bribery and Extortion Schemes SMITH was first elected to the New York State Senate in November 2000, and represented a district within Queens, New York. He was chairman of the Independent Democratic Conference of the State Senate and, among other positions, has served as the State Senate’s minority leader, majority leader, and acting lieutenant governor. From about November 2012, through April 2, 2013, SMITH agreed with former New York City councilman Daniel Halloran, who was convicted in a separate trial, and an undercover FBI agent posing as a wealthy real estate developer (the “UC”), and a cooperating witness (“CW”) to bribe New York City Republican Party county leaders, including TABONE, in exchange for their authorization for SMITH to appear as a Republican candidate for New York City Mayor in 2013, even though SMITH is a registered Democrat. SMITH participated in two overlapping criminal schemes that involved the payment of bribes to obtain official action. First, SMITH, a registered Democrat, authorized the payment of $110,000 in cash bribes to be paid to leaders of the New York City Republican Party, including TABONE, so that they would allow SMITH to run for mayor on the Republican Party’s ballot line. Second, SMITH agreed to use his influence to help steer at least $500,000 in New York State transportation funding to a real estate project the UC and CW had proposed to develop in Spring Valley, New York, in exchange for the UC and CW paying bribes on SMITH’s behalf to the New York City Republican Party Chairs. In furtherance of the scheme, SMITH authorized the UC and the CW to meet TABONE, the Executive Vice Chairman of the Queens County Republican Party, Joseph Savino, the Chairman of the Bronx County Republican Party, and other party leaders. During a meeting with the UC, TABONE accepted a $25,000 cash bribe in a dimly lit SUV parked in front of a Manhattan restaurant and agreed to accept another $25,000 after his committee authorized SMITH to compete in the Republican primary. Savino similarly accepted a $15,000 cash bribe and agreed to accept another $15,000 after he voted to authorize SMITH to compete for the Republican ballot line. In return for his efforts in negotiating the bribes, Daniel Halloran accepted $15,500 as a down payment on a “broker’s” fee of at least $75,000 and expected to be appointed First Deputy Mayor if Smith was elected mayor. Witness Tampering Shortly before the start of a previously scheduled trial, the Government sought permission from the Court to take the deposition of Philip Ragusa, the former Chairman of the Queens County Republican Party. Ragusa, who was gravely ill at the time, was expected to testify favorably to the Government. Over TABONE’s objections, the Court ordered the deposition to take place. TABONE unexpectedly appeared at Ragusa’s home an hour before the scheduled start of the deposition and attempted to pressure Ragusa not to testify against him. * * * SMITH, 58, of Queens, was also sentenced to two years of supervised release. TABONE, 48, of Queens, was sentenced to one year supervised release and ordered to forfeit $25,000. SMITH was ordered to surrender to the Bureau of Prisons on September 21, 2015. TABONE was ordered to surrender October 1, 2015. Mr. Bharara praised the outstanding investigative work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Rockland County District Attorney’s Office. This case is being handled by the Office’s White Plains Division and Public Corruption Unit. Assistant United States Attorneys Douglas B. Bloom, Justin Anderson and Perry Carbone are in charge of the prosecution. Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption SAN FRANCISCO—Former State Senator Leland Yee, Brandon Jackson, Keith Jackson, and Marlon Sullivan all pleaded guilty in federal court in San Francisco today to charges that they engaged in racketeering activity announced United States Attorney Melinda Haag and Federal Bureau of Investigation Special Agent in Charge David J. Johnson. By changing their pleas from “not guilty” to “guilty” the four codefendants now each have acknowledged they have participated in the affairs of an enterprise through a pattern of racketeering activity. Each defendant, all residents of San Francisco, has acknowledged guilt with respect to separate facts. For his part, Yee, 66, acknowledged that he participated in two criminal enterprises, the Leland Yee for Mayor Campaign 2011 and the Leland Yee for Secretary of State campaign. In connection with these campaigns, Yee admitted he (1) accepted $10,000 in exchange for using his influence as a state senator to assist in the process of obtaining a grant from the California Department of Public Health, (2) conspired to extort money from individuals by suggesting he would cast favorable votes for specific legislation only if the money were paid, (3) accepted a $11,000 bribe in exchange for arranging a meeting with another state senator to discuss specific legislation, (4) conspired with others to purchase weapons in the Philippines and import them illegally into the United States, and (5) provided more than $6,000 in cash to a campaign aid knowing the aid would launder the money by arranging to convert the cash into checks made payable to Yee’s Secretary of State campaign. On January 29, 2015, a federal grand jury indicted Yee under a second superseding indictment with conspiracy to conduct the affairs of an enterprise through a pattern of racketeering activity, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1962(d); conspiracy to obtain property under color of official right, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1951(a); honest services conspiracy, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1349; scheme to defraud citizens of honest services and wire fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1343 and 1346; conspiracy to traffic in firearms without a license and to illegally import firearms, in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 371, 922(a)(1), and 922(l); and conspiracy to commit money laundering, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1956(h). According to his plea agreement, Yee pleaded guilty to the racketeering charge and the remaining charges will be dismissed. “Mr. Yee must now live with the consequences of betraying the trust that was placed in him when he became a public servant,” said U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag. “It is particularly disappointing and troubling when our elected officials violate their obligation to fairly represent their constituents. This office will continue to devote the resources necessary to ensure that our elected officials govern within the law.” “Senator Yee’s admission of guilt today brings some measure of justice to the true victims of his crimes: the people of the state of California,” said David J. Johnson, FBI Special Agent in Charge of the San Francisco Field Office.” When a public official uses his office for personal gain and as a platform for illegal activity, he not only betrays the people who elected him to office, but undermines the core principles of our system of government.” Keith Jackson, 50, was Yee’s political consultant and also pleaded guilty to a single charge of racketeering with respect to the same criminal enterprises: the Leland Yee for Mayor Campaign 2011 and the Leland Yee for Secretary of State campaign. In his plea agreement, Jackson admitted he (1) conspired with Yee to accept payments in exchange for providing official services from Yee in his capacity as a state senator, (2) conspired to extort money from individuals by suggesting he would cast favorable votes for specific legislation only if the money were paid, (3) received bribes on Yee’s behalf, (4) conspired with Yee to purchase weapons in the Philippines and import them illegally into the United States, and (5) reimbursed an individual with $3,000 in cash in exchange for two checks made payable to the Leland Yee for Secretary of State campaign knowing that the transaction constituted money laundering and was in furtherance of a weapons trafficking deal. Jackson was charged with 24 counts in the second superseding indictment (as compared to the 9 charges against Yee). The charges included use of interstate commerce facilities in the commission of murder for hire and conspiracy to distribute and possess with intent to distribute cocaine. According to Sullivan’s plea agreement, he engaged in a separate criminal enterprise, the Chee Kung Tong (CKT). The plea agreement describes CKT as a predominantly Chinese American association, based in Chinatown in San Francisco, formed primarily for civic purposes to benefit the communities of Chinese immigrants and Chinese Americans. According to the plea agreement, CKT developed both positive legal community functions and criminal functions; “[s]ome members of the CKT were strictly involved the CKT’s legal functions and activities while other] members were also involved in illegal functions and activities.” Sullivan, 30, admitted he conspired with Keith Jackson and Brandon Jackson to purchase cocaine and to complete a murder-for-hire transaction. Sullivan further acknowledged being arrested just as he attempted to complete the cocaine transaction. With respect to the murder-for-hire transaction, Sullivan did not discover until after he agreed to perform the murder that both the person requesting the murder and the target were federal agents. Sullivan told one of the agents he could “‘pull it off’ because nobody would suspect me of being capable of murder, based on the fact that he was a licensed sports agent. Sullivan was referring to the fact that he was a sports agent licensed to represent players of, among other associations, the National Football League. Sullivan agreed to accept $10,000 in exchange for completing the murder. In addition, Sullivan admitted participating with Keith Jackson and Brandon Jackson in a scheme to illegally sell multiple firearms. Here again, Sullivan was unaware he was selling the arms to undercover federal agents. Sullivan was charged in the second superseding indictment with conspiracy to conduct the affairs of an enterprise through a pattern of racketeering activity, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1962(d); conspiracy to distribute and possess with intent to distribute cocaine, in violation of 21 U.S.C. § 846, 841(a)(1) and (b)(1)(A); three counts of dealing firearms without a license, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 922(a)(1); and use of interstate commerce facilities in the commission of murder for hire, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1958. According to Brandon Jackson’s plea agreement, he too participated in illegal activities through CKT. Jackson, 29, admitted that CKT was engaged in narcotics distribution, assault, robbery, extortion, collection of unlawful debt, murder for hire, money laundering, trafficking in stolen goods, illegal firearm possession, and obstruction of justice. Jackson admitted he tried to arrange for the purchase of 10 kilograms of cocaine from a Colombian supplier. The supplier turned out to be a non-existent person created by a federal agent. Jackson was arrested in Hartford, Connecticut, after flying there to complete the transaction. With respect to the murder-for-hire scheme, Jackson agreed to gather intelligence on the intended target including the target’s “daily routine.” Further, Jackson participated with Keith Jackson and Sullivan in the selling of multiple firearms. Brandon Jackson was charged in the second superseding indictment with conspiracy to conduct the affairs of an enterprise through a pattern of racketeering activity, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1962(d); conspiracy to distribute and possess with intent to distribute cocaine, in violation of 21 U.S.C. § 846, 841(a)(1) and (b)(1)(A); six counts of dealing firearms without a license, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 922(a)(1); and use of interstate commerce facilities in the commission of murder for hire, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1958. Yee and Keith Jackson remain out of custody pending their sentencing hearings. Sullivan and Brandon Jackson are in custody pending their sentencing hearings. All defendants are scheduled to be sentenced on October 21, 2015, at 10:00 a.m., before the Honorable Charles Breyer, U.S. District Judge, in San Francisco. The maximum statutory penalty for participating in the affairs of an enterprise through a pattern of racketeering activity in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1962(d) is a 20 years of imprisonment, a fine of $250,000, plus restitution. However, any sentence will be imposed by the court only after consideration of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and the federal statute governing the imposition of a sentence, 18 U.S.C. § 3553. Assistant U.S. Attorneys William Frentzen, Susan Badger, and S. Waqar Hasib are prosecuting the case with the assistance of Rosario Calderon, Kurk Kosek, Ana Guerra, Marina Ponomarchuk, Victoria Etterer, and Lance Libatique. The prosecution is the result of an investigation by Federal Bureau of Investigation; San Francisco Police Department Gang Task Force; Oakland Police Department; Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation; New York Police Department; and the Mercer County New Jersey Sheriff’s Office.
corruption TRENTON, NJ—A former Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) employee who worked as a supervisory engineer at the VA’s campus in East Orange, New Jersey, was sentenced today to 46 months in prison for accepting more than $1.2 million in kickback payments in connection with VA contracts awarded to companies with which he had relationships, and to engaging in a scheme to defraud the VA by claiming one of those companies was owned by a service-disabled veteran when it was not, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Jarod Machinga, 45, of Hopewell, New Jersey, previously pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Mary L. Cooper to an information charging him with one count of honest services wire fraud, one count of wire fraud and one count of engaging in a monetary transaction in criminally derived property. Judge Cooper imposed the sentence today in Trenton federal court. According to documents filed in this case and statements made in court: As a supervisory engineer, Machinga had the authority and influence to direct certain VA construction contracts to particular companies. Machinga partnered with a person—identified in the information as “Individual 1”—to set up three companies that could be used to obtain VA work. He then directed more than $6 million worth of VA construction projects to those companies. Machinga admitted he accepted $1,277,205 in kickbacks in exchange for his official action and influence between 2007 and July 2012. Congress has established a program through which certain VA contracts are reserved for small businesses that are owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans. One of Individual 1’s companies entered into such a contract with the VA after Machinga falsely represented to the VA that it was a service-disabled veteran-owned small business—even though Individual 1 was not a veteran. Machinga then used his official position and influence at the VA to award such a contract to Company 1. The company was paid more than $3 million by the VA in connection with the contract. Machinga also admitted that for many of the projects awarded to Individual 1’s companies, he recruited other contractors to perform the work so the companies were able to keep the money paid to them without having to incur the expense of actually completing the projects. In addition to the prison term, Judge Cooper sentenced Machinga to serve one year of supervised release. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the Department of Veterans Affairs, Office of Inspector General, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Jeffrey Hughes; the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Richard M. Frankel; and IRS-Criminal Investigation, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Jonathan D. Larsen, with the investigation leading to today’s sentencing. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Vikas Khanna of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division and Peter Gaeta of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Unit in Newark.
corruption The Department filed a complaint today seeking the civil forfeiture of approximately $34 million, which represents the cash value of shares in a Canadian energy company that the company used to bribe Chad’s former Ambassador to the United States and Canada for the purpose of influencing the award of oil development rights. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and Assistant Director Joseph S. Campbell of the FBI’s Criminal Investigative Division made the announcement. From 2004 to 2012, Mahamoud Adam Bechir, 50, served as Chad’s Ambassador to the United States and Canada. From approximately 2007 to 2015, Youssouf Hamid Takane, 52, was the Deputy Chief of Mission. As alleged in the complaint, in 2009, Bechir and Takane agreed to use their official positions to influence the award of oil development rights in Chad to Griffiths Energy International Inc., a Canadian oil company, in exchange for shares in the company. Thereafter, in or about October 2009, Griffiths Energy issued four million shares to the wives of Bechir and Takane and to another associate. The complaint further alleges that Griffiths Energy agreed with Bechir and his wife that the company would pay a $2 million “consulting fee” to Bechir’s wife to influence the award of oil development rights in Chad. After securing the desired oil development rights in February 2011, Griffiths Energy allegedly transferred $2 million to an account held by a shell company created by Bechir’s wife. This bribe payment was commingled and laundered through U.S. bank accounts and real property, and eventually was transferred to Bechir’s bank account in South Africa, where he is now serving as Chad’s Ambassador. In 2013, Griffiths Energy pleaded guilty in Canadian court to bribing Bechir. The $34 million that the United States seeks in forfeiture represents the cash value of the four million shares in Griffiths Energy that were provided to the wives of Bechir and Takane and to their associate. In a separate action filed in 2014, the United States also is seeking the civil forfeiture of over $100,000 in allegedly laundered funds traceable to the $2 million bribe payment. Takane resides in the United States. The investigation was conducted by the FBI. The case is being handled by Trial Attorney Nalina Sombuntham and Senior Trial Attorney Steven C. Parker of the Criminal Division’s Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section. This case was brought under the Kleptocracy Asset Recovery Initiative by a team of dedicated prosecutors in the Criminal Division’s Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section, working in partnership with federal law enforcement agencies to forfeit the proceeds of foreign official corruption and, where appropriate, return those proceeds to benefit the people harmed by these acts of corruption and abuse of office. Individuals with information about possible proceeds of foreign corruption located in or laundered through the United States should contact federal law enforcement or send an e-mail to kleptocracy@usdoj.gov
corruption The Department filed a complaint today seeking the civil forfeiture of approximately $34 million, which represents the cash value of shares in a Canadian energy company that the company used to bribe Chad’s former Ambassador to the United States and Canada for the purpose of influencing the award of oil development rights. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and Assistant Director Joseph S. Campbell of the FBI’s Criminal Investigative Division made the announcement. From 2004 to 2012, Mahamoud Adam Bechir, 50, served as Chad’s Ambassador to the United States and Canada. From approximately 2007 to 2015, Youssouf Hamid Takane, 52, was the Deputy Chief of Mission. As alleged in the complaint, in 2009, Bechir and Takane agreed to use their official positions to influence the award of oil development rights in Chad to Griffiths Energy International Inc., a Canadian oil company, in exchange for shares in the company. Thereafter, in or about October 2009, Griffiths Energy issued four million shares to the wives of Bechir and Takane and to another associate. The complaint further alleges that Griffiths Energy agreed with Bechir and his wife that the company would pay a $2 million “consulting fee” to Bechir’s wife to influence the award of oil development rights in Chad. After securing the desired oil development rights in February 2011, Griffiths Energy allegedly transferred $2 million to an account held by a shell company created by Bechir’s wife. This bribe payment was commingled and laundered through U.S. bank accounts and real property, and eventually was transferred to Bechir’s bank account in South Africa, where he is now serving as Chad’s Ambassador. In 2013, Griffiths Energy pleaded guilty in Canadian court to bribing Bechir. The $34 million that the United States seeks in forfeiture represents the cash value of the four million shares in Griffiths Energy that were provided to the wives of Bechir and Takane and to their associate. In a separate action filed in 2014, the United States also is seeking the civil forfeiture of over $100,000 in allegedly laundered funds traceable to the $2 million bribe payment. Takane resides in the United States. The investigation was conducted by the FBI. The case is being handled by Trial Attorney Nalina Sombuntham and Senior Trial Attorney Steven C. Parker of the Criminal Division’s Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section. This case was brought under the Kleptocracy Asset Recovery Initiative by a team of dedicated prosecutors in the Criminal Division’s Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section, working in partnership with federal law enforcement agencies to forfeit the proceeds of foreign official corruption and, where appropriate, return those proceeds to benefit the people harmed by these acts of corruption and abuse of office. Individuals with information about possible proceeds of foreign corruption located in or laundered through the United States should contact federal law enforcement or send an e-mail to kleptocracy@usdoj.gov
corruption In El Paso this morning, 30-year-old Timothy Keith McCullouch, Jr., a former El Paso County Juvenile Probation Officer, who is also a Folk Nation/Gangster Disciples member, was sentenced to 18 years in federal prison for federal sex trafficking violations announced Acting United States Attorney Richard L. Durbin, Jr., Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) Special Agent in Charge Waldemar Rodriguez and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Special Agent in Charge Douglas E. Lindquist, El Paso Division. In addition to the prison term, United States District Judge Philip R. Martinez ordered that McCullouch pay a $2,500 fine and be placed on supervised release for a period of ten years after completing his prison term. On January 16, 2015, jurors found Timothy McCullouch, Jr. and three other gang members—25-year-old Richard Gray, 26-year-old Deion Lockhart and 24-year-old Emmanual Lockhart—guilty of conspiracy to commit sex trafficking of persons. Testimony during trial revealed that between May 2012 and March 2013, the defendants were involved in the forced prostitution of juveniles and adults by the Folk Nation/Gangster Disciples street gang. The defendants used a combination of force, fraud, and coercion to compel their victims to engage in sexual activities for money in El Paso; Killeen, TX; Albuquerque, NM; Las Vegas, NV; and, in Colorado. On June 26, 2015, Judge Martinez sentenced Emmanual Lockhart to 20 years’ imprisonment, Deion Lockhart to 25 years’ imprisonment, and Richard Gray to life imprisonment for their roles in the sex trafficking scheme. This investigation was conducted by the ACTeam (Anti-Trafficking Coordination Team) comprised of personnel from Homeland Security Investigations (HSI), Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and U.S. Department of Labor together with the El Paso Police Department Gang Unit and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF). Assistant United States Attorneys Rifian Newaz and Robert Almonte prosecuted these defendants on behalf of the Government.
corruption PIKEVILLE—A former state representative and Pikeville coal operator, Wendell Keith Hall, has been convicted by a jury of bribing a federal mine official. The jury deliberated for one hour and 30 minutes following five days of trial. According to evidence presented at trial, Hall, who represented House District 93 in the Kentucky General Assembly, paid mine reclamation officer Kelly Shortridge for favorable treatment in connection with his official duties. Shortridge worked as an environmental inspector for the Office of Surface Mine Reclamation and Enforcement, where he was responsible for enforcing federal mine reclamation laws and regulations. From 2006 through 2011, Shortridge inspected mines owned by Hall. Shortridge ignored violations that occurred on Hall’s property in exchange for a series of payments totaling over $46,000. The evidence also established that the two men disguised the payments as consulting fees. In 2010, they set up a shell company, DKJ Consulting, in the name of Shortridge’s wife and opened a bank account with her as the sole authorized signatory on the account. Hall then used a company he owned, S&K Properties, to funnel money to Shortridge through DKJ to make the payments appear as legitimate business expenses. “Mr. Hall’s brazen scheme to corrupt an important governmental function for his personal benefit is made all the more egregious by his former status as a member of the Kentucky General Assembly,” said Kerry B. Harvey, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky. “The United States will seek a sentence which properly reflects the serious nature of Mr. Hall’s criminal conduct.” Shortridge pleaded guilty in February of this year. Shortridge is scheduled to be sentenced on August 6, 2015. Kerry B. Harvey, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky; Howard S. Marshall, Special Agent in Charge, FBI; and Scott Oliver, Department of Interior, Office of Inspector General, jointly made the announcement. Hall faces a maximum of 10 years in prison. However, any sentence imposed will come after the Court considers the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and the federal statutes governing the imposition of sentences.
corruption BIRMINGHAM—Federal prosecutors on Thursday charged the former comptroller for the Boaz Housing Authority with stealing federal Housing and Urban Development funds, announced U.S. Attorney Joyce White Vance and HU.S.ecial Agent in Charge Nadine E. Gurley. The one-count information filed in U.S. District Court charges STANLEY J. KNOP, 47, of Crossville, with stealing HUD funds from Aug. 4, 2010, through Oct. 25, 2013, while he was comptroller of the Boaz Housing Authority, which receives HUD funding. The United States seeks forfeiture of $160,618 that has been identified as proceeds of the theft. “The U.S. Attorney’s Office is dedicated to holding accountable corrupt public employees who steal federal funds entrusted to their oversight,” Vance said. “The substantial sum stolen from the Boaz Housing Authority was much needed by that community, but it was deprived of those funds by the acts of a selfish individual. This prosecution can see that those funds are restored to the community,” she said. “The charges today demonstrate our commitment to combat the theft of HUD funds, especially when the funds involved are earmarked to assist our neediest families,” Gurley said. “The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, Office of Inspector General, will continue to partner with other federal, state and local authorities to ensure that corrupt individuals do not use their positions to enrich themselves at the government’s expense,” she said. Knop could face a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine if convicted of the theft. HUD-OIG and the FBI investigated the case, which Assistant U.S. Attorney Laura D. Hodge is prosecuting. The public is reminded that an indictment or information contains only charges. A defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption Evelyn Langford 49, of Copperas Cove, Texas, was sentenced today to 22 months in prison and ordered to pay $260,000 in restitution for her convictions for wire fraud and bribery, announced U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag of the Northern District of California, Special Agent in Charge David J. Johnson of the FBI’s San Francisco Division and Special Agent in Charge Paul Delacourt of the FBI’s Honolulu Division. Langford pleaded guilty on March 20, 2015, to one count of wire fraud and one count of bribery. According to the plea agreement, Langford admitted that in 2012 she was the Director of the Department of Human Resources of the Government of American Samoa (ASG), a territory of the United States located in the South Pacific Ocean. As part of her duties, she was charged with partial oversight of a $24.8 million U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) National Emergency Grant (NEG). The grant was awarded to American Samoa in the wake of a September 2009 tsunami that caused significant damage in American Samoa. Langford admitted that while administering the funds, she accepted payments from a contractor. She then provided that contractor favorable official action. In February 2012, a company known as the Native Hawaiian Holding Company Inc. (NHHC) entered into a service contract with the ASG. Under this contract, NHHC received approximately $4.7 million of the NEG funds to develop a “contact center” (or call center) industry in American Samoa. The NEG service contract was signed by an NHHC representative, Quin Rudin, and by Langford and other ASG representatives. The contract also contained provisions generally prohibiting employees of the ASG from soliciting or receiving gratuities from NHHC. Notwithstanding the prohibition from soliciting gratuities, Langford nevertheless requested that Rudin extend her a “loan,” which Rudin agreed to do. Langford received a $10,000 payment from Rudin in April 2012 and a $250,000 payment in May 2012. After receiving the funds, Langford provided favorable official action on behalf of Rudin and NHHC. For example, Langford admitted making arrangements to have NHHC representatives, including Rudin, meet with the Governor of American Samoa for the purpose of “pitching” business ideas to him, including proposals regarding transportation and medical development projects. In addition, Langford concealed the true nature and scope of her dealings with Rudin and NHHC, including by failing to advise other employees of the ASG and employees of the DOL in San Francisco that she had received gifts and payments from NHHC and Rudin and from companies associated with him. Langford, waived indictment and was charged in an information on Jan. 15, 2015. She was charged with wire fraud and bribery concerning programs receiving federal funds in violation. The individual who made the payments to Langford, Rudin, has been prosecuted separately for a scheme to defraud Cisco Systems Inc., and its subsidiary Cisco Systems Capital Corporation, related to the lease of Cisco equipment. Rudin’s case is pending in the Northern District of California. The sentence was handed down by District Judge Jon S. Tigar of the Northern District of California, following the guilty plea. Judge Tigar also sentenced the defendant to a three year period of supervised release and ordered her to pay $260,000 in restitution to the ASG. The defendant will begin serving the sentence on Sept. 25, 2015. The prosecution is the result of a two-year investigation by agents of the FBI’sHonolulu and San Francisco Divisions. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Kyle F. Waldinger and Hallie Mitchell Hoffman of the Northern District of California, with the assistance of Bridget Kilkenny, Jessica Meegan, Mary Mallory and Allen Williams.
corruption Evelyn Langford 49, of Copperas Cove, Texas, was sentenced today to 22 months in prison and ordered to pay $260,000 in restitution for her convictions for wire fraud and bribery, announced U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag of the Northern District of California, Special Agent in Charge David J. Johnson of the FBI’s San Francisco Division and Special Agent in Charge Paul Delacourt of the FBI’s Honolulu Division. Langford pleaded guilty on March 20, 2015, to one count of wire fraud and one count of bribery. According to the plea agreement, Langford admitted that in 2012 she was the Director of the Department of Human Resources of the Government of American Samoa (ASG), a territory of the United States located in the South Pacific Ocean. As part of her duties, she was charged with partial oversight of a $24.8 million U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) National Emergency Grant (NEG). The grant was awarded to American Samoa in the wake of a September 2009 tsunami that caused significant damage in American Samoa. Langford admitted that while administering the funds, she accepted payments from a contractor. She then provided that contractor favorable official action. In February 2012, a company known as the Native Hawaiian Holding Company Inc. (NHHC) entered into a service contract with the ASG. Under this contract, NHHC received approximately $4.7 million of the NEG funds to develop a “contact center” (or call center) industry in American Samoa. The NEG service contract was signed by an NHHC representative, Quin Rudin, and by Langford and other ASG representatives. The contract also contained provisions generally prohibiting employees of the ASG from soliciting or receiving gratuities from NHHC. Notwithstanding the prohibition from soliciting gratuities, Langford nevertheless requested that Rudin extend her a “loan,” which Rudin agreed to do. Langford received a $10,000 payment from Rudin in April 2012 and a $250,000 payment in May 2012. After receiving the funds, Langford provided favorable official action on behalf of Rudin and NHHC. For example, Langford admitted making arrangements to have NHHC representatives, including Rudin, meet with the Governor of American Samoa for the purpose of “pitching” business ideas to him, including proposals regarding transportation and medical development projects. In addition, Langford concealed the true nature and scope of her dealings with Rudin and NHHC, including by failing to advise other employees of the ASG and employees of the DOL in San Francisco that she had received gifts and payments from NHHC and Rudin and from companies associated with him. Langford, waived indictment and was charged in an information on Jan. 15, 2015. She was charged with wire fraud and bribery concerning programs receiving federal funds in violation. The individual who made the payments to Langford, Rudin, has been prosecuted separately for a scheme to defraud Cisco Systems Inc., and its subsidiary Cisco Systems Capital Corporation, related to the lease of Cisco equipment. Rudin’s case is pending in the Northern District of California. The sentence was handed down by District Judge Jon S. Tigar of the Northern District of California, following the guilty plea. Judge Tigar also sentenced the defendant to a three year period of supervised release and ordered her to pay $260,000 in restitution to the ASG. The defendant will begin serving the sentence on Sept. 25, 2015. The prosecution is the result of a two-year investigation by agents of the FBI’sHonolulu and San Francisco Divisions. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Kyle F. Waldinger and Hallie Mitchell Hoffman of the Northern District of California, with the assistance of Bridget Kilkenny, Jessica Meegan, Mary Mallory and Allen Williams.
corruption BOSTON—A Boston Police officer and former treasurer of the Boston Police Patrolmen’s Association was charged today with making a false statement to the FBI in connection with his cash loans to a known criminal. David Michael Fitzgerald, 49, who resides in Milton, was charged in an Information with one count of making a false statement to the FBI. Fitzgerald has been a Boston Police Department police officer since 1996 and was the treasurer of the Boston Police Patrolmen’s Association (BPAA) from 2012 to 2014. According to court documents, Fitzgerald developed a relationship with an individual who was a known street-level drug dealer and bookmaker. During the course of this relationship, Fitzgerald made cash loans to the individual, which were paid back in weekly installments. On April 27, 2015, Fitzgerald met the individual in Watertown in order to collect a $500 cash installment for one of the outstanding loans. Later that same day, when federal agents who were investigating the matter questioned Fitzgerald, he falsely stated that the purpose of his meeting with the individual was simply social in nature and that he had never loaned money to the individual. Not only were these statements untrue, but they were intended to interfere with an ongoing federal investigation. The charging statute provides a sentence of no greater than five years in prison, three years of supervised release, and a fine of $250,000. The plea agreement also filed today states that Fitzgerald has agreed to resign his position as a Boston Police Officer, and there will be a joint recommendation to the Court for a sentence of one year probation. Actual sentences for federal crimes are typically less than the maximum penalties. Sentences are imposed by a federal district court judge based upon the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and other statutory factors. United States Attorney Carmen M. Ortiz; Vincent B. Lisi, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Boston Field Division; and Boston Police Commissioner William Evans, made the announcement today. The U.S. Attorney’s Office also wishes to acknowledge the cooperation of the Boston Police Department’s Anti-Corruption Division. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Eugenia M. Carris and Robert A. Fisher of Ortiz’s Public Corruption Unit & Special Prosecutions Unit. The details contained in the Information are allegations. The defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
corruption BALTIMORE, MD—Chief U.S. District Judge Catherine C. Blake sentenced Barry Stephen Robinson, age 65, of Accokeek, Maryland, today to a year and a day in prison, followed by three years of supervised release, in connection with a bribery scheme perpetrated in 2014 while Robinson was Chief of the Division of Transit and Marine Services of the Baltimore City Department of Transportation. Chief Judge Blake also ordered Robinson to pay forfeiture in the amount of $20,000, of which all but $13,550 had already been seized. The sentence was announced by U.S. Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Baltimore City Inspector General Robert H. Pearre, Jr.; and Special Agent in Charge Thomas Jankowski of the Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation, Washington, D.C. Field Office. “Barry Stephen Robinson took a $20,000 bribe to cancel a $60,000 debt owed to Baltimore City, and a $70,000 bribe to allow the theft of city property worth $250,000,” said U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein. “This sort of corruption can occur when dishonest people are trusted to handle valuable government property.” “Using his official position and the resources of Baltimore City, Robinson abused the trust placed in him in order to personally enrich himself,” said Thomas Jankowski, Special Agent in Charge, IRS Criminal Investigation, Washington D.C. Field Office. “IRS-Criminal Investigation stands committed to weed out individuals, such as Robinson, who take the path to financial enhancement through greed and corruption at the expense of those they serve.” Barry Robinson was Chief of the Division of Transit and Marine Services of the Baltimore City Department of Transportation and supervised Baltimore City’s “Circulator” and “Water Taxi” programs. He had authority to approve contracts with advertisers and vendors and to purchase and pay for goods and services. In the spring of 2013, Robinson received a check for $40,000 payable to the Baltimore City Director of Finance, in payment for advertising on Circulator buses. Robinson returned the check and proposed that for $20,000 in cash, he would cancel the $40,000 debt to the city and provide written documentation that it had been paid. The debtor declined the offer at that time. In January 2014, Robinson renewed his offer to extinguish the debt to the City of Baltimore. This time, he offered to cancel $60,000 of debt in return for $20,000 in cash. From January 23 to March 11, 2014, Robinson received four cash payments of $5,000 each. In return, Robinson provided a signed letter on Baltimore City letterhead falsely stating that the $60,000 debt had been paid. Robinson also admitted that he stole and sold bus shelters belonging to the City for $70,000. In 2011, Robinson arranged for Baltimore City to purchase 13 bus shelters from a Canadian company for $249,290. On multiple occasions from May 2013 to March 2014, Robinson said since the city did not keep track of the shelters, he planned to sell them for his personal benefit. On April 9, 2014, Robinson accepted $70,000, in return for the city’s bus shelters. Seeking to disguise the source of the bribery proceeds, Robinson deposited the cash bribe payments he received into two bank accounts in the name of another person, and used a portion of the proceeds to install carpeting, televisions and a range hood in his home. According to court documents, the intended loss to the City of Baltimore from Robinson’s schemes was approximately $310,000. U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI, the Baltimore City Office of Inspector General and IRS-Criminal Investigation, for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant U.S. Attorney Barbara S. Sale, who prosecuted the case.
corruption DALLAS—A federal grand jury has returned a two-count indictment charging an Austin, Texas, corporate executive with offenses related to a public corruption investigation involving Dallas County Commissioner John Wiley Price and others, announced John Parker, Acting U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Texas and Richard L. Durbin, Jr., Acting U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Texas. Helena Tantillo, 58, of Austin, is charged in the indictment, returned by a federal grand jury in Austin last week, and unsealed today, with two counts of making a false statement to law enforcement. Tantillo surrendered to federal authorities in Austin today and made her initial appearance before a U.S. Magistrate Judge who released her on bond. A federal criminal indictment is a written statement of the essential facts of the offense charged. A defendant is entitled to the presumption of innocence until proven guilty. The statutory penalty, upon conviction, for the offense charged is five years in federal prison and a $250,000 fine, per count. The FBI and Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation are conducting the investigation. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Walt M. Junker and J. Nicholas Bunch and Deputy Criminal Chief Assistant U.S. Attorney Katherine Miller are prosecuting.
corruption ALEXANDRIA, VA—James Glenn Warner, 44, of Manassas, Virginia, was sentenced today to 42 months in prison, followed by three years of supervised release, for soliciting a $500,000 bribe from executives working for a private company on a contract that Warner managed out of the Pentagon. Warner was also ordered to pay $50,000 in forfeiture. According to court documents, in October 2014, Warner made arrangements to meet with two executives of Company A, a Virginia-based company which held a five-year contract with the Department of the Army worth up to $120 million. At the meeting, which took place at a restaurant located in the Pentagon Centre in Arlington, Virginia, Warner instructed the two executives to communicate with him by typing messages into his cell phone, which was passed around the table. Warner then passed a menu to the two executives. Inside the plastic covering for the center section of the menu was a piece of paper which outlined a bribe and extortion solicitation, suggesting that if Company A paid $500,000 it would secure a contract renewal from the Department of the Army and that alleged damaging information about Company A would be destroyed. The Company A executives declined Warner’s solicitation, reported the conduct and began cooperating with law enforcement agents. Acting at the direction of law enforcement, a Company A executive then met with Warner on five subsequent occasions, paying Warner a total of $150,000 cash bribes out of the total $500,000 solicited by Warner. On Jan. 28, 2015, at the last of these meetings, Warner was arrested while in possession of $100,000 in bribe payments. Dana J. Boente, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia; Andrew G. McCabe, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office; Robert E. Craig, Special Agent in Charge, Mid Atlantic Field Office, Defense Criminal Investigative Service; and Frank Robey, Director, Major Procurement Fraud Unit, U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command, made the announcement after the plea was accepted by U.S. District Judge Leonie M. Brinkema. This case was investigated by the FBI’s Washington Field Office, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, and the U.S. Army Criminal Investigative Command. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Kosta S. Stojilkovic and Mark D. Lytle are prosecuting the case. Any person who believes they may have information regarding public corruption or fraud in the Northern Virginia area is encouraged to call the FBI’s Northern Virginia Public Corruption Hotline at 703-686-6225, or the Defense Criminal Investigative Service Hotline at 800-424-9098, or the U.S. Army Criminal Investigative Command Hotline at 844-276-9243. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia or on PACER by searching for Case No. 1:15-cr-77.
corruption Preet Bharara, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, announced that JOSEPH DESMARET was sentenced yesterday in White Plains federal court to three years in prison for his participation in a scheme in which he accepted over $10,000 in cash bribes in exchange for his votes, as a member of the Spring Valley Board of Trustees, to sell Village land and steer a state-funded transportation contract to a real estate development company. DESMARET was sentenced before U.S. District Judge Kenneth M. Karas, before whom DESMARET pled guilty on January 29, 2014. Manhattan U.S. Attorney Bharara stated: “Joseph Desmaret’s sentence is a reminder that every politician, no matter how high the office he holds, must act only in the interest of the public he serves.” According to the Indictment and other documents filed in this case: DESMARET accepted approximately $10,500 in cash bribes from an undercover FBI agent (“UC”) and a cooperating witness in exchange for his vote in favor of a sale of land owned by Spring Valley to a company he believed was controlled by the UC. In addition, DESMARET agreed to steer to the UC’s company New York State funding for road work associated with the project that he believed the UC’s company was developing. In addition to the prison term, DESMARET, 57, formerly of Monsey, New York, was also sentenced to two years of supervised release, and ordered to forfeit $10,500. Noramie Jasmin, DESMARET’s co-defendant and the then-mayor of Spring Valley, New York, was convicted for her role in the bribery scheme in April 2015 and is currently scheduled to be sentenced by Judge Colleen McMahon on August 7, 2015. Mr. Bharara praised the outstanding efforts of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Rockland County District Attorney’s Office. This case is being handled by the Office’s White Plains Division and Public Corruption Unit. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Douglas B. Bloom and Justin Anderson are in charge of the prosecution. Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption CORPUS CHRISTI, TX—An indictment has been officially unsealed charging Eugenio Hernandez Flores, the former governor of Tamaulipas, Mexico, with conspiring to launder monetary instruments and aiding and abetting the operation of an unlicensed money transmitting business, announced U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson. Hernandez Flores, 57, was indicted along with Oscar Gomez Guerra, 43, on May 27, 2015. Following a motion filed by the United States, the court officially unsealed that indictment late yesterday. Hernandez Flores was the governor of the Mexican State of Tamaulipas from 2005 to 2010. Gomez Guerra is married to his sister. The U.S. government intends to seek a personal money judgment from both men in the amount of $30 million. Also included in the indictment is a notice of criminal forfeiture regarding four real properties, three of which are located in McAllen and are valued at more than $2 million. The other property is located in Austin. If convicted of the money laundering conspiracy, the two face up to 20 years in federal prison and a fine of up to $500,000 (or twice the value of the monetary instrument or funds involved in the transactions or both). They will also face up to five years in federal prison and a $250,000 maximum fine if convicted of operating an unlicensed money transmitting business. Both men are considered fugitives and warrants remain outstanding for their arrests. Anyone with information about their whereabouts is asked to contact the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) at 713-693-3000. The investigation leading to the indictment was conducted through OCDETF in Houston, San Antonio, Brownsville, Laredo, McAllen and Corpus Christi. The DEA, Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation, Homeland Security Investigations, FBI, and the U.S. Marshals Service conducted the investigation. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Jesse Salazar and Julie K. Hampton. An indictment is a formal accusation of criminal conduct, not evidence. A defendant is presumed innocent unless convicted through due process of law.
corruption KNOXVILLE, TN—On June 16, 2015, a federal grand jury returned a three-count indictment against Tennessee State Representative Joe Armstrong charging him with conspiracy to defraud the United States, tax evasion and filing a false federal income tax return. Armstrong appeared in U.S. District Court on June 19, 2015, and pleaded not guilty to the charges. A trial has been set for 9:00 a.m., on August 25, 2015, before the Honorable Thomas A. Varlan, Chief U.S. District Court Judge. The indictment, which is on file with the U.S. District Court, alleges that Armstrong utilized his position as a legislator to profit from the sale of Tennessee cigarette tax stamps and avoid the payment of federal income taxes. Agencies involved in this investigation include the Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation Division and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant U.S. Attorney Charles E. Atchley, Jr., represented the United States.
corruption WASHINGTON—A former chief executive officer of a red light camera vendor pleaded guilty today to participating in an eight-year bribery and fraud scheme, announced Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Carter M. Stewart of the Southern District of Ohio and Special Agent in Charge Angela L. Byers of the FBI’s Cincinnati Field Office. Karen L. Finley, 55, of Cave Creek, Arizona, pleaded guilty before U.S. Magistrate Judge Terence P. Kemp of the Southern District of Ohio to a one-count information charging her with conspiracy to commit federal programs bribery and honest services wire and mail fraud. Finley’s sentencing hearing will be scheduled at a later date. From December 2005 to February 2013, Finley served as CEO of a red light camera enforcement company. As part of her plea agreement, Finley admitted that, between 2005 and 2013, she participated in a scheme in which the company made campaign contributions to elected public officials in the cities of Columbus and Cincinnati through a consultant retained by the company. According to admissions made in connection with her plea, Finley and others, including another executive of the company, agreed to provide the conduit campaign contributions with the understanding that the elected public officials would assist the company in obtaining or retaining municipal contracts, including a photo red light enforcement contract with the City of Columbus. Finley also admitted she and her co-conspirators concealed the true nature and source of the payments by the consultant’s submission and the company’s payment of false invoices for “consulting services,” which funds the consultant then provided to the campaigns of the elected public officials. The case was investigated by the FBI’s Cincinnati Field Office, Columbus Resident Agency, with the assistance of IRS-Criminal Investigations and the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Edward P. Sullivan of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney J. Michael Marous of the Southern District of Ohio. Follow the FBI’s Cincinnati Field Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s Cincinnati Field Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption OCALA, FL—United States Attorney A. Lee Bentley, III announces the arrest of Robert L. Brown (32, Clermont) on a criminal complaint charging him with receipt of a bribe by a public official. If convicted, he faces up to 15 years in federal prison. Brown was arrested late yesterday, and he has been released on a $25,000 bond pending resolution of the matter. Brown is employed as a corrections officer at the Coleman Federal Correctional Institution in Sumter County, Florida. According to court documents, beginning in January 2015, Brown allegedly used his position as a corrections officer to begin accepting illegal monetary payments to smuggle contraband to inmates. On June 18, 2015, federal agents monitored a meeting between Brown and a cooperating witness. During that meeting, Brown accepted a $2,600 bribe for illegal items that he had already smuggled into the prison. When confronted by investigators, Brown admitted that he had illegally negotiated for $7,100 in cash payments, in return for smuggling cellular telephones, prescription pills, tobacco, and other items to federal inmates. A criminal complaint is merely an allegation that a defendant has committed one or more violations of federal criminal law, and every defendant is presumed innocent unless, and until, proven guilty. This case is being investigated by the U.S. Department of Justice—Office of the Inspector General, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Robert E. Bodnar, Jr.
corruption ATLANTA—Dwight Hamilton, a former sergeant with the DeKalb County Sheriff’s Office, has been arraigned on charges of using excessive force against inmates at the DeKalb County Jail and for writing false reports about the incidents. “Detention officers have a difficult job as they maintain order and protect inmates in our county jails and prisons. But under no circumstances can we allow a detention officer to abuse his power to commit violent and unnecessary assaults on inmates, nor can we stand by and allow that officer to file false reports to cover up such an incident,” said Acting U.S. Attorney John Horn. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated: “The rule of law very much applies to the correctional setting, both for the inmates and the correctional staff. While the vast majority of those working within these correctional facilities carry out their mission admirably, the FBI remains committed toward investigating and presenting for prosecution those individuals who would violate an inmate’s civil rights under the color of law.” According to Acting U.S. Attorney Horn, the indictment, and other information presented in court: Hamilton worked as a detention officer at the DeKalb County jail from 2005 to 2012. On two separate dates in January 2012, while Hamilton was a supervisor on his shift, he used his Taser multiple times on inmates without justification. The inmates sustained injuries as a result of the tasing. The indictment charges that in both instances, Hamilton used excessive force and thereby violated the inmates’ constitutional rights. Following each of the tasing incidents, Hamilton wrote a false report with the intent to impede, obstruct and improperly influence the investigation. In the first report, Hamilton falsely reported that the victim inmate “made a step toward” Hamilton immediately before Hamilton tased him. In the second report, Hamilton omitted that he tased the inmate more than three times. Hamilton, 51, of Atlanta, Ga., who was indicted by a federal grand jury on June 17, 2015, was arraigned today before Magistrate Judge Janet F. King. Members of the public are reminded that the indictment only contains charges. The defendant is presumed innocent of the charges and it will be the government’s burden to prove the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt at trial. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Brent Alan Gray and DOJ Civil Rights Division Trial Attorney Christopher Perras are prosecuting the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Presse-mails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the home page for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Atlanta Division is http://www.justice.gov/usao-ndga.
corruption ABINGDON, VA—Three of the four defendants convicted in a kickback scheme at the Bristol Virginia Utilities Authority were sentenced today in the United States District Court for the Western District of Virginia in Abingdon. Robert James Kelley, 61, of Lexington, Va., David Copeland, 44, of Bristol, Va., and Michael Clark, 63, of Colbert, Ga., were all sentenced today for their roles in the scheme. “This is a sad day for these defendants and their families. They have chosen to use their positions to enrich themselves at the expense of those who put their trust in them. Identifying public corruption is a priority for my office and prosecuting the offenders is necessary to maintain the public’s trust in our government institutions,” Acting United States Attorney Anthony P. Giorno said today. “I am proud of the cooperative work done by the investigators in this case, and I believe justice has been served.” “Public corruption erodes the foundation of trust and confidence of a government’s procurement system,” Adam S. Lee, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI’s Richmond Division said today. “The FBI, recognizing public corruption as our top criminal priority, pledges to continue to work with our law enforcement partners and community members to hold accountable those who circumvent and manipulate the system for personal gain.” “It is unacceptable to help yourself to the American public’s money and violate their trust,” said Thomas Jankowski, Special Agent in Charge, IRS Criminal Investigation, Washington D.C. Field Office. “Today’s sentencing’s stand as examples that IRS-CI, along with the United States Attorney and our law enforcement partners, will continue to investigate and prosecute crimes involving financial fraud and in particular fraud that erodes the public’s confidence.” Kelley Jr., who is a former Vice President of Field Operations for BVU, previously pled guilty to one count of a multi-object conspiracy to commit mail fraud, money laundering and to defraud the United States. Today in District Court, Kelley was sentenced to 30 months in prison and ordered to pay $330,510 in restitution. In addition, he will forfeit $165,375. Copeland, who is also a former Vice President of Field Operations for BVU, previously pled guilty to one count of a multi-object conspiracy to commit wire fraud and money laundering. Today in District Court, he was sentenced to 24 months in prison and ordered to pay $144,000 in restitution. In addition, he will forfeit $50,000. Clarke, who previously performed contract work for BVU and submitted false invoices to Kelley Jr., previously pled guilty to one count of engaging in a conspiracy to defraud the Internal Revenue Service. Today in District Court, he was sentenced to eight months of federal incarceration. Clark was also issued a $2,000 fine and ordered to pay $110,065 in restitution. A fourth defendant, James Todd Edwards, has yet to be sentenced for his role in the conspiracy. The investigation of the case, which remains ongoing, is being conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Zachary Lee will prosecute the case for the United States.
corruption DALLAS, TX—Breanna Polk, 32, of Dallas, Texas, charged with one count of wire fraud plead guilty June 16, 2015, before U.S. Magistrate Judge Irma Ramirez, announced Acting U.S. Attorney John R. Parker of the Northern District of Texas. She faces a maximum statutory penalty of 20 years’ imprisonment, $250,000 fine and not more than three years of supervised release. A sentencing date of October 1, 2015 has been scheduled. According to plea documents filed in the case, on August 2, 2007 a parolee with the Texas Department of Criminal Justice (TDCJ) reported to his parole officer, Polk at the Garland, Texas parole office. Polk advised the individual she planned to take a trip to Florida to celebrate her birthday. The parolee left approximately $500 on Polk’s desk. On at least two other occasions between August 2007 and March 2010, the same individual paid over $500 to receive favorable treatment from Polk concerning the conditions of his parole. In or around March 2010, the parolee absconded to Mexico to avoid DEA law enforcement in connection with his illegal drug distribution. The parolee paid Polk $2,000 to assist him in avoiding law enforcement by indicating he reported to parole, when he had not. Additionally Polk agreed to check for any arrest warrants and notify the parolee if he had an active arrest warrant. On June 8, 2010 Polk conducted a search on a National Crime Information Center database to determine if the parole had an active arrest warrant, Polk transmitted the search by means of a wire communication. The Federal Bureau of Investigation and Texas Department of Criminal Justice—Office of the Inspector General were involved in the investigation. Assistant U.S. Attorney Katherine Pfeifle is prosecuting the case.
corruption WASHINGTON—Neil S. Rodgers, a former District of Columbia government official, was sentenced today to a period of incarceration and ordered to pay full restitution on a charge stemming from his role in channeling $110,000 in youth and drug prevention grant funds that were used to pay for an inaugural ball. The sentencing was announced by Acting U.S. Attorney Vincent H. Cohen, Jr., Andrew G. McCabe, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office, and Thomas Jankowski, Special Agent in Charge of the Washington Field Office of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation. Rodgers was found guilty in March 2015, by a jury in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, of first-degree fraud. The Honorable Senior Judge John D. Bates sentenced Rodgers to 36 days of incarceration, to be served over 12 weekends. He also ordered him to pay $110,000 in restitution. Rodgers also will be placed on two years of probation. Rodgers, 62, of Washington, D.C., served as the Committee Director of the Council of the District of Columbia’s Committee on Libraries, Parks, Recreation and Planning. Before becoming Committee Director, Rodgers worked for many years at the District of Columbia Department of Parks and Recreation, serving as Chief of Staff and Acting Director. Six others have pled guilty to charges in the overall investigation, which focused on activities involving former Council Member Harry L. Thomas, Jr. Thomas pled guilty in January 2012 to charges stemming from a scheme in which he used more than $350,000 in taxpayers’ money that was earmarked for the arts, youth recreation, and summer programs for his own personal benefit, including paying for vehicles, clothing, and trips. He resigned in January 2012 as a condition of his plea agreement and later served a 38-month prison sentence. According to the government’s evidence, Rodgers aided Thomas in illegally securing funds for the 51st State Inaugural Ball, held on Jan. 20, 2009, at the Wilson Building. “Neil Rodgers worked with former D.C. Council member Harry Thomas to perpetrate a fraud that diverted money from at-risk children to throw a black-tie ball for adults,” said Acting U.S. Attorney Cohen. “His conviction at trial brings to seven the number of people convicted as part of Harry Thomas’s chronic abuse of the public trust. Neil Rodgers refused to acknowledge that there was anything wrong in the cavalier way that he and Harry Thomas stole from a program for children. He now will be required to pay back every penny he stole from the children of the District. Those children, who were most harmed by this, deserve better from our public officials.” “Today, Mr. Rodgers accepted his penalty for illegally steering money meant to fund District of Columbia government programs to pay for a Presidential inauguration party,” said Assistant Director in Charge McCabe. “The FBI and our partners at the IRS have worked countless hours to investigate the trail of money that was intended to help youth in the District and how the corrupt actions of a public servant resulted in a loss to the community he served.” Thomas directed one of his staffers to plan the ball to celebrate the inauguration of President Obama. The 51st State Inaugural Ball was sponsored by Thomas, other council members and a local chapter of a political organization which was run by Thomas’s staffer who planned the ball. Ticket sales and other contributions failed to raise enough money to pay the expenses associated with the ball. Following the ball, the vendors who provided services for the ball were owed approximately $100,000. Thomas asked Rodgers to help find funding for the money owed to the vendors. Thomas and Rodgers participated in a scheme to take money that was originally donated by D.C. taxpayers to the Children at Risk and Drug Prevention Fund to pay for the inaugural ball. After the ball was over, Thomas and Rodgers contacted the president of a public-private partnership that provided grants to children and youth of the district. Thomas and Rodgers falsely stated that the ball had been a youth event. The private-public partnership organization agreed to provide funding for the ball based on these representations. It also agreed to use the Children at Risk and Drug Prevention Fund money to pay for the ball. The Children at Risk and Drug Prevention Fund consisted of money that had accumulated at the D.C. Department of Parks and Recreation after years of tax donations by D.C. taxpayers. In 2008, the D.C. Council passed legislation that gave responsibility for distributing the money to the community to the public-private partnership organization. At the time of the ball, the money had not yet transferred to the public-private partnership. Rodgers used his influence to finalize the transfer of the money so that it could be used to pay for the inaugural ball. Rodgers then submitted false paperwork to the public-private partnership that described the inaugural ball as a youth event. Rodgers provided multiple copies of budgets and supporting narratives that misled the public-private partnership and resulted in the issuance of the Children at Risk and Drug Prevention Fund money to pay for the inaugural ball. In announcing the sentence, Acting U.S. Attorney Cohen, Assistant Director in Charge McCabe, and Special Agent in Charge Jankowski commended the work of those who investigated the case from the FBI’s Washington Field Office and IRS-CI. They also acknowledged the work of those who worked on the case from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, including Paralegal Specialists Tasha Harris, Heather Sales, Jessica Mundi, and Ida Anbarian; Litigation Technology Specialists Joshua Ellen and Ron Royal; and former Assistant U.S. Attorneys Jonathan Haray, Bridget Fitzpatrick, James Smith, and David Johnson. Finally, they expressed appreciation for the work of Assistant U.S. Attorneys Matthew Graves and Michelle Zamarin, who prosecuted the case.
corruption PROVIDENCE, RI—Former Rhode Island House Speaker and former Vice-Chairman of the City of Providence Board of Licenses Gordon D. Fox, 53, of East Providence, was sentenced today to three years in federal prison for stealing $108,000 donated by campaign supporters to pay for personal expenses; his acceptance of a $52,000 bribe to advocate and move for issuance of a liquor license for an East Side restaurant while serving as Vice-Chairman of the City of Providence Board of Licenses in 2008; and his failure to account for these illegal sources of income on his tax returns. At sentencing, U.S. District Court Judge Mary M. Lisi also ordered Fox to serve two years’ supervised release upon completion of his prison term, and to pay $109,000 in restitution. Fox pleaded guilty on March 3, 2015, to wire fraud, bribery and filing a false tax return. Fox has been ordered to self-surrender to begin serving his prison sentence by July 7, 2015. An 18-month federal grand jury investigation led by prosecutors from the United States Attorney’s Office and the Rhode Island Attorney General’s Office, and investigators from the FBI, IRS and Rhode Island State Police, included the execution of court authorized search warrants at the former speaker’s home and State House office in March of 2014; the issuance of more than 200 subpoenas; the examination of more than 36,000 bank, government, personal, and campaign records belonging to former Speaker Fox; and forensic examinations of numerous computers and other electronic devices. United States Attorney Peter F. Neronha commented, “It is a great irony that the man in Rhode Island once most responsible for securing the passage of laws somewhere along the way decided he no longer needed to follow them. And the laws former Speaker Fox chose not to follow were not just any laws, but rather laws designed to ensure the integrity of the legal and political process. In short, he violated his oath to the people of Rhode Island. He promised to do their business, not his own. His failure to keep that promise has brought him down today, and deservedly so. “I want to thank the FBI and IRS Special Agents, Rhode Island State Police Detectives, and the federal and state prosecutors, whose outstanding work has secured justice and ensured that Rhode Island can chart a new path forward. Hopefully, Rhode Island can take advantage of it.” Attorney General Peter F. Kilmartin said, “From day one, I pledged the resources of my office, and when the allegations surrounding the acceptance of a bribe by Gordon Fox arose, and it was recognized that the federal statute of limitations for that offense had expired, this office made a commitment to the United States Attorney to proceed with the prosecution of that charge in state court if necessary. The State, working jointly with the United States Attorney, was ready to prosecute the bribery charge had this case not been resolved in Federal Court, and this case now stands as a testament to the commitment of both offices to aggressively prosecute corrupt public officials.” Attorney General Kilmartin further stated, “Gordon Fox is not the first public official that our two offices have jointly prosecuted. While we can all hope it’s the last time we prosecute a public official, unfortunately history has taught us that it will happen again. But, let this serve as a warning to all public officials in this state, whether they are the Speaker of the House or a local board member—if you break the law, violate the trust the voters put in you, and abuse your office, you will be held accountable. You can be assured, as can the public, that we stand together, as federal and state prosecutors, with a single purpose, and will continue to work with our prosecutorial and law enforcement partners to ensure justice prevails.” At the time of his guilty plea, Fox admitted to the Court that from February 2008 until March of 2014, just prior to the execution of federal search warrants at his State House office and home, he repeatedly used money received from campaign donors to pay for personal expenses. After transferring the money from his campaign accounts to his personal accounts, former Speaker Fox used the money—$108,000 in all—to pay the mortgage on his home, the loan payments on his car, and the balance on his personal American Express card, which he used to make purchases at various retail outlets. Fox admitted that in order to conceal his fraudulent conduct, he falsified his mandatory Rhode Island Board of Elections filings. Additionally, Fox admitted to the Court that in 2008, while serving as an appointed member and Vice-Chairman of the City of Providence Board of Licenses, he accepted a $52,000 bribe from the owners of Shark Sushi Bar and Grill to help secure a liquor license for the establishment. At the time, there was considerable neighborhood opposition to the application. At a hearing in August 2008, Vice-Chairman Fox, pursuant to his agreement with the Shark Bar partners, spoke in detail regarding why the license should be awarded, and moved the Board to approve the Shark Bar’s application. The Board voted to approve the Shark Bar’s application. Additionally, Fox admitted to the Court that for the tax years 2008 through 2012, he filed false tax returns, in that he knowingly omitted personal income he received as a result of his receipt of the bribe in 2008 and his fraudulent transfers from his campaign accounts to his personal accounts. Vincent B. Lisi, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI’s Boston Division said, “Gordon Fox accepted a bribe, used campaign donations for his own personal use and lied on his tax return. The FBI will continue to go after corrupt individuals like him who abuse their elected office and betray the public’s trust.” “Public servants are entrusted by all of us to act in the best interests of the citizens they serve,” said Special Agent William Offord, IRS Criminal Investigation. “Gordon Fox betrayed the public’s trust and his sentencing today sends a clear message—corruption at all levels of government will not be tolerated. IRS-CI will continue to lend our financial expertise to these important prosecutions.” Colonel Steven G. O’Donnell, Superintendent of the Rhode Island State Police added, “I commend all the Troopers, Detectives, FBI and IRS agents as well as the prosecutors from the U.S. Attorney’s office and Attorney General’s office for their dedication and commitment to justice”. The case was jointly prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Dulce Donovan and Adi Goldstein, and Rhode Island Assistant Attorney General J. Patrick Youngs.
corruption A Puerto Rico Superior Court Judge was sentenced today to 10 years in prison today after being convicted earlier this year of accepting bribes to acquit a businessman of vehicular homicide charges. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodríguez-Vélez of the District of Puerto Rico made the announcement. In January, a federal jury convicted Judge Manuel Acevedo-Hernandez, 63, of Aguadilla, Puerto Rico, of conspiracy to commit federal programs bribery and receipt of a bribe by an agent of an organization receiving federal funds. Chief U.S. District Judge Aida M. Delgado of the District of Puerto Rico imposed the sentence. Acevedo-Hernandez presided over the trial of Lutgardo Acevedo-Lopez, 39, a certified public accountant in Aguadilla, Puerto Rico. Acevedo-Lopez was charged with criminal vehicular homicide based on his role in a June 2012 collision involving the vehicle he was driving and another car, which resulted in the death of the other driver. According to the evidence presented at trial, Acevedo-Lopez used an intermediary to bribe Acevedo-Hernandez by paying taxes owed by Acevedo-Hernandez; paying for the construction of a garage for Acevedo-Hernandez’s home; and providing Acevedo-Hernandez with a motorcycle, clothing and accessories, including cufflinks and a watch. In exchange, Acevedo-Hernandez acquitted Acevedo-Lopez of all charges. In August 2014, Acevedo-Lopez pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit federal programs bribery and to paying a bribe to an agent of an organization receiving federal funds. Acevedo-Lopez has not yet been sentenced. The case was investigated by the FBI’s San Juan Division. The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Peter Mason and Menaka Kalaskar of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and First Assistant U.S. Attorney Timothy Henwood and Assistant U.S. Attorney Jose Capó of the District of Puerto Rico.
corruption A federal jury in Albany, Georgia, today convicted three sheriff’s deputies on various federal offenses related to the cover-up of a 2012 incident in which a fourth deputy used force during the arrest of a civilian. The charges against Decatur County Captain Elizabeth Croley, Decatur County Deputy Christopher Kines and Decatur County Deputy Robert Wade Umbach related to a September 2012 incident in which former Grady County Deputy Sheriff Wiley Griffin, IV—who is the son of Decatur County Sheriff Wiley Griffin, III— used force against Aaron Parrish during an arrest at the Bainbridge BikeFest. The jury found that Croley, Kines and Umbach obstructed justice when they later helped cover up defendant Griffin’s actions. Specifically, the jury convicted Croley of obstructing justice by writing a false report and convicted Kines and Umbach of engaging in misleading conduct by lying to an FBI agent about the incident. Croley was also convicted of violating Aaron Parrish’s constitutionally protected right to a fair trial by intentionally withholding material exculpatory evidence from the District Attorney’s Office, and, in turn from Aaron Parrish’s criminal defense attorney, during a criminal prosecution of Parrish arising out of the same BikeFest incident. Croley, Kines and Umbach will be sentenced by the Honorable W. Louis Sands, Senior U.S.District Court Judge for the Middle District of Georgia, at a later date to be set by the court. The same jury that convicted the three Decatur County officers of obstruction acquitted Griffin on a civil rights count charging him with having used excessive force against Parrish and acquitted Kines and Umbach of obstructing justice by writing false reports. During a trial that lasted more than two weeks, the jury heard evidence that Griffin struck Parrish in the eye with a metal flashlight while Parrish was being restrained on the ground by other deputies, including Kines and Umbach. The government presented evidence that Captain Croley and Deputies Kines and Umbach then helped cover up the incident by, among other things, Croley writing a false report and Kines and Umbach misleading the FBI by stating that they did not see Griffin at the scene. The government also presented evidence that, after Parrish complained to the Decatur County Sheriff’s Office about the abuse he had suffered at BikeFest, the Sheriff’s Office opened a criminal investigation led by Croley that eventually resulted in felony criminal charges against Parrish. During that investigation, Croley took a witness statement from a civilian eyewitness who provided information that would have been materially helpful to Parrish’s defense. However, rather than providing that statement to the District Attorney so that it could then be provided to Parrish’s defense attorney for use at trial, Croley intentionally removed the exculpatory statement from the case file. This conduct formed the basis of the civil rights charge on which defendant Croley was convicted. At sentencing, Croley will face a maximum sentence of 20 years for her false report and one year for the civil rights violation involving hiding exculpatory evidence. Kines and Umbach face maximum sentences of 20 years for making misleading statements to the FBI. “As the jury recognized through its verdict, there are serious consequences when law enforcement officers lie to cover up the misconduct of a fellow officer and when an officer intentionally stacks the deck against an accused person by hiding evidence that could show the person’s innocence,” said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta of the Civil Rights Division. “When officers engage in this type of outrageous behavior, the Department of Justice stands ready to enforce the law and protect the civil rights of all Americans.” “This case reflects that the rule of law applies to all and that the FBI will present for prosecution the facts as it finds them,” said Special Agent in Charge J. Britt Johnson of the FBI Atlanta Field Office. “Today’s verdicts conclude an extensive investigation and prosecution that needed to be heard and the FBI is satisfied that it was.” This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and was prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Christine M. Siscaretti and Risa Berkower of the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division, with support from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of Georgia.
corruption Preet Bharara, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, and Diego Rodriguez, the Assistant Director-in-Charge of the New York Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (“FBI”), announced today the unsealing of criminal charges against three New York City Correction Officers in the death of Ronald Spear, a pre-trial detainee at Rikers Island. BRIAN COLL, then a correction officer on Rikers Island, was charged with repeatedly kicking Mr. Spear in the head while he was fully restrained and lying prone on the floor, in violation of his rights under the United States Constitution. The two other officers involved in the incident, BYRON TAYLOR and ANTHONY TORRES, are, together with COLL, charged with obstruction of justice related offenses for covering up COLL’s assault, which resulted in the death of Mr. Spear. COLL and TAYLOR were arrested this morning on charges contained in a Criminal Complaint and are expected to be presented in federal court later today. TORRES ultimately disclosed the attempted cover-up to federal investigators and pled guilty earlier this week to a Criminal Information charging obstruction of justice offenses, pursuant to a cooperation agreement with the Government. Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said: “Today, we announce more sad news out of Rikers Island. Specifically, we unseal charges against three correction officers alleging a killing and a cover-up. Both relate to the untimely death of Ronald Spear, a Rikers Island inmate who died in the early morning hours of December 19, 2012, after receiving a brutal beating. As I have said before, Rikers inmates, although walled off from the rest of society, are not walled off from the protections of our Constitution.” Assistant Director-in-Charge Diego Rodriguez said: “The vast majority of law enforcement officials serve their communities with honor and integrity. But when an officer’s conduct exceeds the permissible use of force and violates a person’s civil rights, the foundation of our democracy is threatened. Today, we hear the call of Spear and other victims whose constitutionally protected rights have been abused and violated. We remember their collective plea for justice. And we vow never to forget our obligation to remove from the criminal justice system those who do not uphold the tenets of the legal system.” According to the Complaint[1] and Information unsealed today in Manhattan federal court: Rikers Island is a jail complex, located in the Bronx, New York, maintained by the New York City Department of Correction. At the time of his death, Ronald Spear was a pretrial detainee incarcerated on Rikers Island in the North Infirmary Command, a facility housing detainees who have serious or chronic medical needs. Mr. Spear was suffering from end-stage renal disease, which required him to receive dialysis treatments. Mr. Spear wore a bracelet indicating that he was at “Risk of Fall” and typically walked with a cane. The Assault In the early morning hours of December 19, 2012, Mr. Spear left the housing area in the infirmary unit in an attempt to see the on-duty doctor. Mr. Spear was stopped outside the doctor’s office by COLL. When Mr. Spear was informed that the doctor was not available to see him at that time, an altercation ensued. COLL punched Mr. Spear several times in the face and stomach, and Mr. Spear was then restrained by two other correction officers, ANTHONY TORRES and BYRON TAYLOR. While Mr. Spear was lying prone on the ground and was still restrained, COLL repeatedly kicked Spear in the head, even after TORRES attempted to shield the inmate’s head with his hand and shouted to COLL to stop. After COLL stopped kicking Mr. Spear, COLL lifted Mr. Spear’s head up, told him in substance not to forget who had done this to him, and then dropped Spear’s head to the ground. Mr. Spear was pronounced dead at the scene shortly after the assault. Spear’s autopsy was conducted at the Bronx Office of the Chief Medical Examiner. The autopsy revealed that Spear had three recent contusions on his head. At least two of those contusions were what the Medical Examiner described as “above the hat line,” and were thus inconsistent with being sustained as part of a fall. One of the contusions involved what the Medical Examiner described as a “brain bleed” caused by the blunt force of the impact. The Medical Examiner confirmed that the placement of Spear’s head injuries was consistent with Spear being kicked in the head while he was lying prone on the ground. The Cover-Up After Spear’s death, COLL, TAYLOR, TORRES, and others covered up the true cause of Mr. Spear’s death by concocting a false story that turned Mr. Spear into the aggressor. Specifically, COLL falsely claimed that Mr. Spear had attacked him with a cane, and TORRES and an additional correction officer referred to in the Complaint as CW-1 agreed to support this false version of events and not to tell investigators of evidence that COLL had repeatedly kicked Mr. Spear in the head. Additionally—at the request of TAYLOR—COLL, TORRES, and CW-1 agreed to falsely claim that TAYLOR was not present for the incident. Consistent with their agreement, the conspirators filed false use of force reports with the Department of Correction and lied repeatedly to Department of Correction investigators, to the Bronx District Attorney, and, in TAYLOR’s case, to a federal grand jury. The conspirators propagated this false version of events after being repeatedly advised by a Rikers captain and by representatives of the correction officers’ union to be “consistent” in the use of force reports the officers were required to submit following Spear’s death. The first draft of a use of force report by CW-1 was rejected by a captain because it did not match the version of events contained in reports by COLL and TORRES, and CW-1 was required to submit a revised report that was “consistent.” Additionally, when no cane was recovered from the crime scene—potentially calling into doubt COLL’s claim that Mr. Spear had attacked him with a cane—a Rikers captain simply directed a correction officer to take a cane from the supply area and pass it off to investigators as the cane used in the incident. In his guilty plea yesterday before the Honorable Chief Judge Loretta A. Preska to obstruction of justice offenses, TORRES admitted that he had conspired with others to cover up the facts surrounding the death of Mr. Spear. TORRES was not charged with violating the civil rights of Mr. Spear and at one point sought to shield Mr. Spear from the attack. * * * BRIAN COLL, 45, of Smithtown, New York, is charged with one count of deprivation of rights under color of law, which carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison, one count of conspiracy to obstruct justice, which carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison, one count of obstruction of justice, which carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison, one count of filing false forms, which carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison, and one count of conspiracy to file false forms, which carries a maximum sentence of five years in prison. BYRON TAYLOR, 31, of Brentwood, New York, is charged with one count of obstruction of justice by lying to a federal grand jury, which carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison, one count of conspiracy to obstruct justice, which carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison, and one count of conspiracy to file false forms, which carries a maximum sentence of five years in prison. ANTHONY TORRES, 49, of New Rochelle, New York, pled guilty to one count of conspiracy to obstruct justice and file false reports, which carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison, and one count of filing a false report, which carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison. The statutory maximum penalties are prescribed by Congress and are provided here for informational purposes only, as any sentencings of the defendants would be determined by the judge. Mr. Bharara praised the investigative work of the FBI and the Criminal Investigators at the United States Attorney’s Office. Mr. Bharara also thanked the New York City Department of Correction, Investigative Division, and the Bronx District Attorney’s Office for their assistance in the investigation, which remains ongoing. This case is being handled by the Office’s Civil Rights and Public Corruption Units. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Brooke E. Cucinella and Jeannette A. Vargas are in charge of the prosecution. The charges contained in the Complaint are merely accusations, and COLL and TAYLOR are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. - FBI New York ADIC’s prepared remarks Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption INDIANAPOLIS—United States Attorney Josh J. Minkler announced today the sentencing of a former Bloomington public official for one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud and 10 counts of wire fraud. U.S. District Judge Tanya Walton Pratt sentenced Justin Wykoff, 44, Bloomington, to 55 months in federal prison today. “Public officials are trusted to serve the people not to serve themselves,” said Minkler. “Those who choose to line their pockets using money from the public payroll can expect the full force of the federal prosecution hammer. Judge Walton Pratt’s sentence sends a strong message; if you choose to abuse the public’s trust as a public official, you will go to prison. There will be no probation, no half-way house, no suspended sentence, no parole. The sentence will be prison.” Wykoff, was the Manager for Engineering Services for the City of Bloomington and pled guilty in federal court in March 2015, to 11 counts of wire fraud. He was responsible for bidding and awarding contracts for public works projects in the City of Bloomington, like road paving and sidewalk construction. Between April 2011 to February 2014, Wykoff solicited and received substantial cash bribes and kickbacks from Roger Hardin and Zach Hardin, who operated a company called Reliable Concrete and Construction. In exchange for the kickbacks, Wykoff assisted the Hardins in obtaining over $800,000 in city construction contracts and payments for Reliable Concrete. Wykoff estimated project costs and prepared bid proposals, using his inside information to ensure Reliable Concrete was the low bidder. In some cases, Wykoff awarded city contracts to Reliable Concrete outright without obtaining bids from other contractors. Wykoff also authorized city payments to Reliable Concrete totaling approximately $807,000. Of that amount, approximately $300,000 was for work that was never completed by Reliable Concrete. Wykoff and the Hardins took steps to conceal their scheme by creating false Reliable Concrete bid proposals after the fact. On February 17, 2014, Wykoff went to Roger Hardin’s home and created multiple bid proposal forms for projects that the City of Bloomington had already paid Reliable Concrete for—even though Reliable Concrete had not performed the work. The forms were backdated to coincide with the dates that the work was supposed to have taken place. Wykoff initialed or signed these forms as if he had approved the bids and then planted copies of the forms in his office in an attempt to further conceal the scheme. Roger Hardin was sentenced to 33 months for his role in the scheme. His son, Zachary was sentenced to 12 months. All three are equally responsible for restitution of over $400,000 to the City of Bloomington. The investigation was conducted by the FBI and the Bloomington Police Department. FBI Special Agent in Charge W. Jay Abbott stated, “Public corruption is one of the FBI’s top investigative priorities and FBI Agents remain committed to pursuing those individuals that violate the public’s trust.” According to Senior Litigation Counsel Steve DeBrota and Assistant United States Attorney Nick Linder, who are prosecuting the case for the government, Wykoff must serve three years of supervised release after his sentence.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—Calvin Duncan, 63, a former Philadelphia Water Department employee, was sentenced today to 24 months in prison and three years of supervised release for a scheme to defraud the City of Philadelphia of more than $1 million. Duncan, of Philadelphia, worked as a mailroom clerk and was responsible for purchasing supplies, including printer ink and toner cartridges, for PWD’s administrative offices. Between January 1, 2006 and January 5, 2012, Duncan ordered printer ink and toner cartridges, for which the City of Philadelphia paid approximately $1,368,091.19, falsely claiming that the cartridges were for PWD employees’ use. Instead, Duncan sold the cartridges for approximately $545,412.79 and had them shipped to his co-conspirators using PWD’s UPS shipping account. Duncan pleaded guilty, on August 9, 2013, to five counts of mail fraud. In addition to the prison term, U.S. District Court Judge Jan E. DuBois ordered restitution in the amount of $1,368,091.19. Duncan’s co-conspirators, Derek and Danita Willis, who own Laser Cartridge Plus, Inc. in Russellville, Arkansas, pleaded guilty on April 29, 2014. Derek Willis was sentenced to 36 months in prison; Danita Willis was sentenced to 12 months and 1 day in prison. Amy Kurland, Inspector General for the City of Philadelphia , testified at the sentencing hearing for Derek Willis and Danita Willis and described the harm as follows: “The City of Philadelphia could have used that money for a number of things. Approximately 500 students could have been educated. Teachers could have been hired to educate that number of students. That money would have funded the entire Fire Inspection Department at L&I for a year. The money could have also been used for equipment, for body cameras for 200 officers. …When something like this happens, when people are able to steal that amount of money from the city, it makes the citizens lose confidence in government and lose confidence in the city’s ability to function appropriately.” The investigation was initiated by the Philadelphia Office of the Inspector General and included the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Tomika N. Stevens Patterson.
corruption BOSTON—The former chief of the Lee Police Department (LPD) was convicted today in U.S. District Court in Springfield following a three-week trial of extorting a $4,000 payment from a couple facing prostitution charges in Southern Berkshire District Court. Joseph Buffis, 57, of Pittsfield, Mass., was convicted by a federal jury of extortion under color of official right. U.S. District Court Judge Mark G. Mastroianni scheduled sentencing for Oct. 19, 2015. As the Lee Police Chief, Buffis solicited and controlled public donations to the Edward J. Laliberte Toy Fund, a children’s holiday toy fund. On Feb. 21, 2012, Buffis extorted a $4,000 check “donation,” payable to the toy fund, from two individuals who were facing prostitution-related charges. Buffis then deposited the $4,000 check into the toy fund’s bank account and quickly withdrew $3,990 of these funds in three checks that he wrote to “Cash,” but deposited into a personal bank account that he owned with his wife. Buffis used the diverted funds to pay various personal expenses. When law enforcement commenced an investigation into this activity, Buffis repeatedly lied about the disposition of these funds. Buffis faces a second trial on one count of mail fraud. According to the allegations of the superseding indictment, soon after Buffis became Lee Chief of Police in 2011, he arranged for the Town of Lee to provide the LPD with four iPhones—one for himself and three for other LPD officers. Rather than distribute the three iPhones to his LPD officers, Buffis gave them to his wife and their two children for their personal use. From Oct. 5, 2011 to Aug. 21, 2013, Buffis caused the Town of Lee to mail Verizon Wireless a series of checks totaling approximately $5,091 for the phones Buffis’s gave to wife and children. Today, the jury also acquitted Buffis of three counts of wire fraud, one count of mail fraud, and seven counts of money laundering. Those charges were related to Buffis’s operation of the toy fund. The extortion charge provides a sentence of no greater than 20 years in prison, five years of supervised release, and a fine of $250,000. Actual sentences for federal crimes are typically less than the maximum penalties. Sentences are imposed by a federal district court judge based upon the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and other statutory factors. United States Attorney Carmen M. Ortiz; Vincent B, Lisi, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Boston Field Division; and Colonel Timothy P. Alben, Superintendent of the Massachusetts State Police, made the announcement today. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Steven H. Breslow and Deepika Shukla of Ortiz’s Springfield Branch Office.
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, announced that LYNWOOD PATRICK, JR., 39, of East Hartford, waived his right to indictment and pleaded guilty today before U.S. District Judge Victor A. Bolden in Bridgeport to one count of mail fraud related to his submission of a fraudulent application for a personal mortgage modification. According to court documents and statements made in court, from approximately October 2012 through May 2013, while he was employed as the Director of Investigations for the State of Connecticut Department of Social Services (DSS), Office of Quality Assurance, PATRICK applied for a mortgage modification through JP Morgan Chase under the Making Home Affordable program, a federal initiative designed to assist homeowners who have experienced a decline in income access secure loans at lower rates. The application requested assistance in connection with a property PATRICK owned in East Hartford. During the application process, PATRICK represented that the East Hartford property was his primary residence and was owner occupied when, in fact, the property was not his primary residence and he did not occupy it. PATRICK also fabricated State of Connecticut paystubs and lied about his assets in order qualify for the program. Specifically, PATRICK claimed total assets of $500 in one checking account to show that he had experienced a loss of income causing a hardship when, in fact, he had thousands of dollars spread out over multiple accounts at several institutions and his rate of pay had not diminished. The investigation revealed that, in connection with the loan application, PATRICK faxed fraudulent documents to JP Morgan Chase from DSS offices and used a DSS fax coversheet. In his capacity as the Director of Investigations, PATRICK was responsible for coordinating and conducting activities to prevent, detect and investigate fraud, waste, abuse and overpayments in the Connecticut Medicaid, Care4Kids, Supplemental Nutritional Assistance and Connecticut Energy Assistance Programs. PATRICK’s salary was partially paid for by the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, which is a federal agency within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Judge Bolden scheduled sentencing for August 31, 2015, at which time PATRICK faces a maximum term of imprisonment of 20 years. PATRICK has been released on a $150,000 bond since his arrest on May 6, 2015. This matter is being investigated by the Connecticut Public Corruption Task Force, which includes the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services—Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development—Office of Inspector General, Federal Bureau of Investigation, U.S. Postal Inspection Service and Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation Division. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher M. Mattei. Citizens are encouraged to report corruption to the Connecticut Public Corruption Task Force by calling 1-800-CALL-FBI (1-800-225-5324).
corruption JACKSONVILLE, FL—United States District Judge Timothy Corrigan today sentenced Harold Walbey, III to four years and three months in federal prison for identity theft and wire fraud. As part of his sentence, the Court also entered a money judgment in the amount of $110,756, the proceeds of the offenses. Walbey pleaded guilty on December 18, 2014. According to court documents, beginning in 2010 and continuing through May 2012, Walbey, in his capacity as a correctional officer at the John E. Goode Pre-trial Detention Facility (PTDF), stole the personal identifying information of unknowing inmates that were housed at the facility. As a part of this scheme, Walbey maintained a notebook that contained 49 names, Social Security numbers, and dates of births of prisoners that were incarcerated at the PTDF. Once this information was stolen, fraudulent debit card accounts and W-2 forms were created in the inmates’ names, and fraudulent tax return were then electronically filed. From 2010 through 2012, Walbey filed tax returns in 38 different prisoners’ names, claiming more than $250,000 in fraudulent refunds. He received $110,756 in proceeds as a result of his involvement in this crime. This case was investigated by the Jacksonville Sheriff’s Office, the Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Malisa Chokshi.
corruption David Denenberg, a former New York attorney and former Nassau County Legislator, was sentenced today before U.S. District Judge Joanna Seybert at the federal courthouse in Central Islip to three months’ imprisonment and three months’ home confinement for defrauding a former client of over $2 million. Denenberg previously pleaded guilty to eight counts of mail fraud in connection with this fraud scheme. Today’s sentencing was announced by Kelly T. Currie, Acting United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, and Diego Rodriguez, Assistant Director-in-Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation, New York Field Office (FBI). “Mr. Denenberg stole his client’s money and violated his oath as a member of the bar. Today’s sentence should serve as a reminder that in our nation, no one is above the law,” stated Acting U.S. Attorney Kelly T. Currie. “Denenberg diverted funds from his client’s checkbook into his own pockets through the false representation of legal services. Today we remind everyone of our commitment to identify those who misuse their position to take advantage of unsuspecting consumers; those responsible will not go unpunished,” stated FBI Assistant Director-in-Charge Rodriguez. As detailed in the defendant’s guilty plea allocution and court filings, between November 2006 and June 2014, Denenberg was a partner in the Garden City law firm Davidoff Hutcher & Citron LLP (DHC), formerly Davidoff Malito & Hutcher LLP (DMH), and sent fraudulent bills to a client for legal services that he never rendered. The client, a corporation based in Port Washington, New York, relied on Denenberg’s false billings and paid DHC/DHM $2,265,004.46. During the same time period, Denenberg also sent fraudulent expense billings to the client for purported expenses incurred in furtherance of the legal representation, which expenses were never incurred, totaling $126,071.43. In all, the client paid DHC/DHM $2,342,607.64 for legal services never rendered and expenses never incurred. Denenberg has made full restitution to the client. The government’s case is being prosecuted by the Office’s Long Island Criminal Division. Assistant United States Attorney Lara Treinis Gatz is in charge of the prosecution. The Defendant: DAVID DENENBERG Age: 51 Merrick, New York Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption ATLANTA—Dirk Antonious Engram, Jr., has been sentenced to federal prison for taking bribes to smuggle contraband into U.S. Penitentiary-Atlanta while he worked there as a corrections officer. He admitted that he charged $500 every time he smuggled cigarettes, marijuana, or other contraband into the prison for inmates. “Corrupt corrections officers compromise prison safety while they profit from the underground economy that unfortunately exists in prison,” said Acting U.S. Attorney John Horn. “Prison is supposed to be a place where the controls are strong enough that additional crime is impossible, but this breaks down instantly when the officers themselves participate in the corruption.” “The sentencing of Mr. Engram marks the end of his career as a federal corrections officer and the beginning of his time as a federal inmate,” said J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office. “The FBI will continue to vigorously investigate all allegations of corruption within this or other correctional facilities as part of the overall effort to ensure safety and order for both inmates and staff at these facilities.” According to Acting U.S. Attorney Horn, the charges, and other information presented in court: In November 2013, Engram began working as a corrections officer at U.S. Penitentiary-Atlanta, a medium-security prison with approximately 2,000 male inmates. In 2014, Engram began smuggling contraband into the prison for inmates who befriended him. Engram charged $500 each time that he smuggled cigarettes, marijuana, or other contraband into the prison. He was arrested on September 11, 2014, by agents with the FBI after he accepted a bribe to smuggle what he believed was heroin into the penitentiary. Dirk Antonious Engram, Jr., 27, of Atlanta, was sentenced to two years, four months in prison to be followed by three years of supervised release. Engram pleaded guilty to the charges on March 24, 2015. This case was investigated by the FBI. Assistant United States Attorney William G. Traynor prosecuted the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.PressEmails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the home page for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Atlanta Division is http://www.justice.gov/usao-ndga.
corruption GREENBELT, MD—Michelle Lee Davis, age 37, of Laurel, Maryland pleaded guilty today to criminal contempt. The guilty plea was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and Assistant Special Agent in Charge Gary Tuggle of the Drug Enforcement Administration, Baltimore District Office. Davis was an employee of the U.S. Probation and Pretrial Services for the District of Maryland from February 1998 to October 2014. In recent years, including in April 2014, Davis served as an administrative technician with the Pretrial Services office in Greenbelt, in which she conducted record and criminal history checks of new defendants, scheduled initial appearances with a U.S. magistrate judge, and opened and closed files related to defendants on pretrial release. According to her plea agreement, on March 24, 2014 a magistrate judge ordered the sealing of an indictment that charged two defendants with a drug conspiracy. The initial appearance of one of the charged defendants was held on April 15, 2014, at which time Davis learned of the defendant’s identity. Davis did not disclose to her supervisors or colleagues that she knew the defendant. During two telephone conversations that day, Davis disobeyed and resisted the court order sealing the indictment by disclosing the existence and details of the sealed indictment and the identity of the defendant charged in the sealed indictment, to an acquaintance of Davis and the defendant. U.S. District Judge Peter J. Messitte has scheduled sentencing for September 18, 2015 at 9:30 a.m., at which time Davis faces a sentence of a fine or imprisonment, or both, within the court’s discretion. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein commended the FBI and DEA for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein praised the U.S. Probation and Pretrial Services for their assistance in the investigation, and thanked Assistant U.S. Attorneys Kelly O. Hayes and Arun G. Rao, who are prosecuting the case.
corruption COLUMBUS, OH—A United States District Court jury convicted three people of offering and accepting kickbacks as part of a public corruption conspiracy involving a Dayton, Ohio charter school. Two defendants were public officials who ran the school and the other secured a lucrative consulting contract in exchange for bribes to school officials. Carter M. Stewart, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Ohio, Angela L. Byers, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine whose office oversees the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation (BCI), and Ohio Auditor Dave Yost announced the verdicts reached today which was returned following a trial that began on May 18, 2015 before U.S. District Judge Algernon L. Marbley. The jury convicted Shane K. Floyd, 42, Strongsville, Ohio, who served as superintendent of Arise, Arise board chairman Christopher D. Martin, 44, Springfield, Ohio, and Carl L. Robinson, 47, Durham, North Carolina, who operated an educational consulting business called Global Educational Consultants. According to court testimony, Floyd and Martin solicited and accepted bribes from Robinson in exchange for awarding a lucrative, unbid consulting contract to Global. Arise paid Global $420,919 over 15 months starting in September 2008 at a time when Arise was in a financial crisis unable to pay other vendors and teachers pay and benefits were cut. In exchange for the consulting contract, Robinson paid Floyd and Martin large amounts of cash and other benefits, like an all-expense -paid Las Vegas trip taken by Martin. All three were convicted of conspiracy, a crime punishable by up to five years in prison, and with federal programs bribery, which is punishable by up to 10 years in prison. In addition, Floyd and Martin were each convicted of one count of making false statements to the FBI, punishable by up to five years’ imprisonment. The trio also faces a $420,919 forfeiture, which represents the amount of money derived from the crimes. A co-defendant, Kristal N. Screven, also known as Kristal Allen, of Dayton, Ohio admitted her role as an Arise board chairman who was bribed by pleading guilty to conspiracy to commit federal programs bribery on May 8, 2015, before U.S. District Judge Marbley. Arise! Academy was an Ohio Community School, commonly known as a charter school, which operated with federal funds provided through the state of Ohio. U.S. Attorney Stewart commended the investigation by Special Agents of the FBI and Ohio BCI, who are a part of the FBI’s Public Corruption Task Force, as well as Assistant United States Attorneys Doug Squires and Peter Glenn-Applegate and Special Assistant United States Attorney Kim Robinson, who prosecuted the case. Follow the FBI’s Cincinnati Field Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s Cincinnati Field Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption BALTIMORE, MD—A federal grand jury has returned two indictments charging five Baltimore City Department of Public Works (DPW) employees and six commercial trash haulers with conspiracy and other charges, including bribery and theft, related to two schemes to defraud the City of Baltimore through the operation of the DPW waste management services. Two employees are charged in both indictments. The indictments were returned on May 28, 2015 and unsealed today. “The first indictment alleges that trash haulers paid bribes to landfill employees in exchange for not charging dumping fees, which cheated the city of almost $6 million. The second indictment charges that landfill employees stole scrap metal that the city would have sold for almost $1 million,” said U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein. “The Baltimore City Inspector General brought these allegations to the attention of federal authorities and assisted in the investigation.” The first indictment alleges that over a 14-year period three DPW employees solicited and accepted cash payments from at least six private commercial haulers in return for not charging them or their companies the required disposal fees for trash dumped at the Baltimore City Quarantine Road Landfill. The second indictment alleges that over a nine-year period four DPW employees falsely represented on their daily time sheets that they were performing the jobs for which they were hired when, in fact, those employees used their paid positions to engage in a private enterprise for personal gain by selling scrap metal dumped at Baltimore City trash collection sites. The indictments were announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Assistant Special Agent in Charge Kathy Montemorra of the Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation, Washington, D.C. Field Office; Robert H. Pearre, Jr., Inspector General, City of Baltimore Office of Inspector General; and Colonel William M. Pallozzi, Superintendent of the Maryland State Police. The Department of Public Works’ Bureau of Solid Waste The DPW’s Bureau of Solid Waste is responsible for managing Baltimore City’s waste management services, including overseeing citizen drop-off centers, such as the Northwest Transfer Station (NWTS) and the Quarantine Road Landfill (Landfill). Baltimore City’s waste management system generates revenue for the City by collecting and selling recyclable scrap metal dumped at the City’s trash collection facilities. The City contracts with private salvage companies to purchase and remove scrap metal from its trash collection facilities. DPW employees at the Landfill and NWTS are required to place the recyclable scrap metal in separate bins provided by the salvage companies. The salvage companies regularly pick up the scrap metal and, based on predetermined prices per ton, the salvage companies pay the City for the value of the scrap metal. Baltimore City residents can deposit small amounts of trash and/or recyclables in dumpsters located near the main entrance of the Landfill, free of charge. Individuals or companies commercially hauling trash that have registered their vehicles with the City and obtained Landfill permits, as well as Baltimore City residents with larger loads, must deposit their trash in an open area located further within the Landfill. Commercial haulers of trash that meet certain vehicle weight limitations must, in addition to purchasing a Landfill permit, pay a waste disposal fee of $67.50 per ton of trash, also referred to as a “tipping fee.” The disposal fee applies to the net weight of the trash deposited at the Landfill. U.S. v. Washington, Et Al., Criminal No. MJG-15-0303 The 44-count indictment alleges that from approximately 2001 until May 2015, DPW employees sought and accepted cash payments from commercial haulers in return for allowing the commercial haulers to deposit trash at the Landfill without paying the required disposal fees. The indictment charges: Tamara Oliver Washington, age 54, of Baltimore; Williams Charles Nemec, Sr., age 55, of Baltimore; Charles Dennis Bolden, Sr., age 68 of Baltimore; Adam Williams, Jr., age 52, of Randallstown; Mustafa Sharif, age 63, of Baltimore; Larry Lowry, age 61, of Orchard Beach, Maryland; Quentin Turgot Glenn, age 49, of Hanover, Maryland; Jessie Lee Wilson, Jr., age 40, of Baltimore; John Howard Brady, age 73, of Glen Burnie. Washington was a DPW employee assigned to the scale house at the Landfill. DPW employees assigned as scale house operators weigh each truck as it enters the Landfill, which is recorded on a computerized point-of-sale system. To activate the system and record a particular transaction, DPW employees must enter the tag number of the truck and a corresponding billing code. The scale house operators reweigh each truck as it leaves the Landfill. The net weight of the deposited trash and the required disposal fee is then calculated and printed on a receipt that is handed to the driver. Nemec was initially employed by the DPW as a scale house operator at the Landfill and Northwest Transfer Station, and then later promoted to solid waste supervisor. Bolden was employed as a laborer at the Landfill. Williams, Sharif, Lowry, Glenn, and Brady all had commercial trash hauling businesses in Maryland. Wilson was employed by Glenn. Specifically, the indictment alleges that the DPW employees allowed the commercial haulers to enter the Landfill with truckloads of trash – sometimes multiple times a day—without activating the computerized truck scales and point-of-sale system, ensuring that there would be no record of the commercial haulers’ use of the Landfill. In exchange, the commercial haulers paid cash bribes to the DPW Employees, ranging from approximately $50 to $100 per Landfill visit. According to the indictment, the bribes were delivered on a daily or weekly basis to the DPW employees in folded paper through the scale house window or dropped off in envelopes at designated times and places outside the Landfill. The DPW employees allegedly divided the cash payments from the commercial haulers among themselves. The payments were approximately 20% to 30% of what the commercial haulers would have otherwise had to pay to use the Landfill. The indictment alleges that when the commercial haulers’ trucks drove onto the outbound scale after dumping their loads of trash, DPW employees handed the truck drivers fraudulent receipts, usually in the form of white scrap paper or a blank receipt, to maintain the pretense that the trucks had been weighed and appropriately charged for using the Landfill. The indictment alleges that the ongoing relationship between the commercial haulers and DPW employees resulted in a loss of revenue to the DPW and the City of Baltimore of approximately $6,000,000. The defendants each face a maximum sentence of five years in prison for the conspiracy; and all but Bolden also face a maximum of 10 years in prison for each count of bribery. Washington, Nemec and Bolden face a maximum of 20 years in prison for each count of extortion. U.S. v. Hazelton, Et Al., Criminal No. MJG-15-0302 The 18-count indictment alleges that from approximately 2005 through March 2015, Jarrod Terrell Hazelton, age 32, of Parkville, Maryland; Michael Theodore Bennett, age 46, of Baltimore; Bolden and Nemec, conspired to unlawfully sell scrap metal from the Landfill and NWTS, while falsely representing to DPW that they were performing the jobs for which they were hired. The defendants are all employed by DPW at either the Landfill or the NWTS. According to the indictment, the defendants and others used their personal cell phones during work shifts to let each other know when and where recyclable scrap metals were being dumped at the Landfill and NWTS. Hazelton and Bennett used their personal pick-up trucks during work hours to collect the scrap metal and transport it to a private salvage company, frequently making multiple trips during an eight-hour work shift. Hazelton and Bennett sold the scrap metal for as much as $300 per truckload, resulting in a loss of revenue to the City totaling approximately $893,000. Hazelton and Bennett allegedly used part of the proceeds of the sale of the scrap metal to pay a fee to Bolden and other DPW employees for their help locating, setting aside, collecting and loading the scrap metal onto their trucks. According to the indictment, Hazelton and Bolden also paid Nemec in return for allowing them to collect and transport scrap metal from the Landfill. The indictment alleges that the defendants prepared and submitted false time and attendance records, which claimed they had been working, when they were instead illegally collecting and selling the scrap metal, called “junking.” For Hazelton and Bennett, this allegedly resulted in approximately $60,000 in wages being paid to them for work they did not perform. The indictment charges Hazelton with filing false tax returns for tax years 2011 through 2014, by failing to report a total of $537,554 in income. Bennett is charged with failing to file tax returns for tax years 2011, 2012, and 2013, even though he had reportable income of at least $180,834, $152,494, and $146,154, respectively. Finally, the indictment seeks the forfeiture of $953,000, alleged to be the value of the property stolen or obtained by fraud. The defendants each face a maximum sentence of five years in prison for the conspiracy. Hazleton, Bennett and Nemec each face a maximum of 20 years in prison for wire fraud; and Hazleton, Bennett and Bolden also face a maximum of 10 years in prison for each count of theft from a government program. Hazleton faces a maximum of three years in prison for each of four counts of subscribing to a false tax return and Bennett faces a maximum of one year in prison for each of three counts of failure to file a tax return. An initial appearance is scheduled at 2:30 p.m. today for Brady, Williams, Sharif, and at 3:00 p.m. for Glenn, Lowry, and Wilson in U.S. District Court in Baltimore. Washington, Nemec, Bolden, Hazelton, and Bennett had an initial appearance on the charges in their previous criminal complaints, and are released under the supervision of U.S. Pretrial Services. They are expected to be arraigned on the charges in the indictments in the next few weeks. An indictment is not a finding of guilt. An individual charged by indictment is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty at some later criminal proceedings. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI, IRS-CI, Baltimore Office of Inspector General, and Maryland State Police for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant United States Attorneys Martin J. Clarke and Gregory R. Bockin, who are prosecuting the case.
corruption MUSKOGEE, OK—The United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Oklahoma, announced that JASON BRENT MERIDA, age 40, of Ft. Towson, Oklahoma, and former Executive Director of Construction for the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma was sentenced on June 1, 2015 to a total of 144 months in the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP) for the following crimes: Count One: Conspiracy to Commit Theft or Bribery of Programs Receiving Federal Funds; Sentence—60 months in BOP, two years’ supervised release (SR), $100 Special Assessment (SA) Count Two: Theft by an Employee or Officer of a Tribal Government Receiving Federal Funds; Sentence—120 months in BOP, two years SR, $100 SA Count Three: Theft by an Employee or Officer of a Tribal Government Receiving Federal Funds; Sentence—120 months in BOP, two years SR, $100 SA Count Five: Conspiracy to Commit Money Laundering; Sentence—24 months in BOP to run consecutively to Counts One, Two and Three, two years SR, $100 SA Count Six: Tax Fraud; Sentence—36 months in BOP, one year SR, $100 SA Count Seven: Tax Fraud; Sentence—36 months in BOP, one year SR, $100 SA Merida was ordered to pay $545,000 in restitution to the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma and $32,149 in restitution to the Internal Revenue Service. Merida was ordered to report to the Federal Bureau of Prisons no later than noon on July 13, 2015. The charge arose from an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The defendant was indicted in February, 2014. The jury trial began with testimony on October 29, 2014 and concluded with closing arguments and jury deliberations on Thursday, November 20, 2014 with guilty verdicts. The investigation of corruption at the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma began in 2010. The primary allegations of this investigation focused on the payment of bribes from steel contractor, Builders Steel Corporation, to officials at the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma and executives of Flintco, LLC. Flintco, LLC had been hired by the Choctaw Nation to oversee the construction of the Durant Casino and other major construction projects from 2008 through 2010. Testimony at the trial established that Merida, the former Executive Director of Construction for the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma, conspired to corruptly demand, solicit and receive cash, trips, a Cadillac Escalade, plumbing fixtures, cattle guards, and other things of value in excess of the $5,000 from subcontractors performing work on Choctaw Nation construction projects. The testimony also revealed Merida, in concert with others, submitted and approved false invoices from subcontractors allowing him to steal, embezzle and fraudulently convert in excess of $500,000 in funds from the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma which were used to purchase items for Merida and others. The items included firearms, hunting equipment, hunting trips and furniture. Merida also willfully failed to report the proceeds of the fraud on his federal income taxes in 2009 and 2010. Merida represents the eighth person to date to be convicted as part of this investigation and prosecution. Other defendants previously convicted and sentenced include: Brent Alan Parsons—Brent Parsons, a former executive with Builders Steel Corporation was sentenced to 60 months in the Federal Bureau of Prisons on January 22, 2015. Brent Parsons was further ordered to pay $3,977,200.00 in restitution to the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma. Lauri Ann Parsons—Lauri Parsons, the former owner of Builders Steel Corporation was sentenced to 48 months in the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Lauri Parsons was further ordered to pay $3,535,498.24 in restitution to the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma. James Winfield Stewart—Stewart, a former executive with Scott Rice, LLC, Builders Steel Corporation and current owner of L& M Furniture was sentenced to 21 months in the Federal Bureau of Prisons on January 21, 2015. Stewart was further ordered to pay $345,000.00 in restitution to the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma. Cordell Alan Bugg—Bugg, a former executive with Flintco, LLC was sentenced to three years’ probation with 8 months home detention on January 23, 2015. Robert DeWayne Gifford—Gifford, a former executive with Flintco, LLC was sentenced to 48 months in the Federal Bureau of Prisons on April 9, 2015. Gifford was further ordered to pay $345,000.00 in restitution to the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma. Jerry Mark Eshenroder—Eshenroder, a former executive with Flintco, LLC, was sentenced to three years’ probation on January 23, 2015. Mark Allen Franklin—Franklin, a former executive with the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma was sentenced to three years’ probation on February 3, 2015. The United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Oklahoma, Mark Green, stated “The convictions of Mr. Merida and the other seven defendants are the result of a long and complicated investigation by a team of agents from the FBI and IRS. The investigation consumed hundreds of man hours and the agent’s dedication to the investigation was paramount in the successful prosecution of these individuals. The convictions and resulting sentences send a clear message to businessmen and tribal officials seeking to illegally profit at the expense of tribal members that their greed should not and will not be tolerated. My thanks go out to the investigators, the attorneys and staff who have made this prosecution successful!” R. Damon Rowe, Special Agent-in-Charge for the IRS, stated “IRS Criminal Investigation stands by its commitment to ensure justice is brought to those who unlawfully abuse their positions of trust. The message in today’s sentencing remains clear: IRS will pursue and prosecute, to the fullest extent of the law, individuals who use corruption and coercion for personal gain. The victims in this case are not only the Citizens of the Choctaw Nation, but also the American Taxpayers who pay their fair share of taxes.” James Finch, Special Agent-in-Charge for the FBI, stated “The FBI is committed to bringing to justice those entrusted to conduct government business, tribal or otherwise, who compromise that trust for their own personal gain. These sentences confirm there are consequences for individuals who misuse their position or seek to gain an unfair advantage with tribal government.” The Honorable James H. Payne, Chief District Judge in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Oklahoma, in Muskogee, presided over the hearing. First Assistant United States Attorney Doug Horn and Criminal Chief Chris Wilson represented the United States.
corruption RIVERSIDE, CA—In a case stemming from what is believed to be the largest bribe ever accepted by a public official in an undercover operation, a former member of the Moreno Valley City Council was sentenced this afternoon to 60 months in federal prison for taking a $2.36 million cash bribe from an undercover operative posing as a real estate broker. Marcelo Co, 64, was sentenced this afternoon by United States District Judge Jesus G. Bernal. Co pleaded guilty last year to one bribery count and one count of filing a false corporate tax return. The case against Co was the result of an investigation by the Inland Regional Corruption Task Force, which is comprised of prosecutors, agents and investigators from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, IRS – Criminal Investigation, the Riverside County District Attorney’s Office and the United States Attorney’s Office. Co was elected to the Moreno Valley City Council in November 2010 and resigned from his seat in August 2013 after being charged in state court in an unrelated case. Court documents filed in the federal case outline a bribery scheme in which Co told a businessman and an undercover FBI operative posing as a real estate broker that he would control a voting majority of the Moreno Valley City Council and would be able to guarantee land use decisions that would benefit the businessman and the land broker. Co also promised to always vote in favor of land use decisions that would benefit the real estate broker. Co solicited campaign donations from the FBI undercover operative and the businessman, who was cooperating with the investigation. Co eventually received payments of $5,000 and $10,000 that he said were to be used to finance the campaigns of individuals who would vote with him on land use issues. In the fall of 2012, Co met with the undercover operative to discuss a multimillion dollar sale of a 30-acre parcel that he owned. Co told the real estate broker that once he had control of the City Council, he could change the zoning of the property and the land value would dramatically increase. With the City Council election in November 2012, Co told the undercover investigator that he had the votes to alter the zoning and increase the value of Co’s 30-acre parcel, which had been appraised at $710,000. Co proposed that the undercover operative purchase the property for $5.36 million, which would include a cash payment of $2.36 million. At a meeting on January 30, 2013, Co agreed to sell the property for $5.36 million, but that the publicly filed documents would reflect a sale price of only $3 million. At this meeting, Co accepted $2.36 million in cash. The tax charge concerns a federal Corporation Income Tax Return (Form 1120) that Co filed for his company, Qwik Pack Systems, for tax year 2010. In that filing with the IRS, Co failed to report well over $100,000 in income. This tax charge is not related to the bribery scheme. Co must surrender himself to authorities on October 30 to begin serving his sentence.
corruption JEFFERSON CITY, MO—Tammy Dickinson, United States Attorney for the Western District of Missouri, announced that a former employee of the Internal Revenue Service pleaded guilty in federal court today to using stolen identities in a scheme to receive $326,000 in fraudulent tax refunds. Demetria Michele Brown, 38, of Birmingham, Ala., pleaded guilty before U.S. Magistrate Judge Matt J. Whitworth to two counts of wire fraud and one count of aggravated identity theft. By pleading guilty today, Brown admitted that she engaged in a scheme to submit hundreds of false and fraudulent state and federal income tax returns in order to generate refunds from 2008 to 2011. Brown, formerly of Fairview Heights, Ill., worked at an IRS office in St. Louis, Mo., during the fraud scheme. Brown filed more than 120 fraudulent federal tax returns, resulting in a loss of approximately $211,000. Brown filed at least 236 fraudulent state tax returns, resulting in a loss of approximately $115,000, for an aggregate loss amount of approximately $326,000. The scheme involved Brown obtaining personal identification information, including names, Social Security numbers, and dates of birth of other persons without their knowledge or consent. Brown completed U.S. individual income tax returns and Missouri state income tax returns for persons using the personal identification information she had obtained, adding other information which was false and fraudulent, including the address, place of employment, wages earned, taxes withheld and the fact that a refund was due. Under federal statutes, Brown is subject to a sentence of up to 20 years in federal prison without parole for each wire fraud count and a mandatory consecutive sentence of two years in federal prison without parole for aggravated identity theft, plus a fine up to $750,000 and an order of restitution. A sentencing hearing will be scheduled after the completion of a presentence investigation by the United States Probation Office. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Anthony P. Gonzalez. It was investigated by the FBI, IRS-Criminal Investigation, the Missouri Department of Revenue – Compliance and Investigation Bureau and the Missouri Department of Revenue – Criminal Investigation Bureau.
corruption PADUCAH, KY—Acting United States Attorney John E. Kuhn, Jr. today announced charges against a Fort Campbell, Kentucky, Army Sergeant for his role as a public official, for conspiring with another to commit an offense against the United States, namely bribery. According to the federal information, filed in U.S. District court today in Paducah, Kentucky, Ramiro Pena, Jr., age 43, received and accepted illegal bribes totaling $100,000 U.S. currency and a Rolex watch, in return for being influenced in the performance of an official act, that is, ensuring the successful approval and processing of contracts to restock supplies while serving at Humanitarian Air Yard (“HA Yard”) at Bagram Airfield (“Bagram”) in Afghanistan. From January 1, 2008 through September 30, 2009, Pena worked as a U.S. Army Sergeant First Class at the HA Yard at Bagram as a Project Purchasing Officer (“PPO”) who maintained the supply orders and made sure the inventory levels were never low. Pena’s supervisor at the HA Yard was Army Master Sergeant Jimmy W. Dennis, who was charged and convicted in the Western District of Tennessee. Dennis was the Army Paying Agent at the HA yard and worked with Pena to procure supplies for the HA Yard by issuing contracts to local Afghan vendors for supplies. Between June 5, 2008 and March 21, 2009, Dennis and Pena processed approximately 217 contracts worth approximately $30,760,255 for Afghan vendors to provide supplies to the HA Yard. According to the federal information, Pena and Dennis received money and jewelry from the vendors in return for their official acts on the HA Yard contracts. Further, it is alleged that Pena received about $100,000 from Dennis in approximately six installments and a Rolex watch which was provided by a vendor seeking to obtain HA Yard contracts. Pena allegedly sent approximately $22,000 of the bribe money home in greeting cards addressed to his wife who resided at Fort Campbell. He sent three to four bills totaling $300 to $400 in each card at a time so as to not bring attention to the envelope at the post office. It is further alleged that Pena used bribe money to purchase a Harley Davidson motorcycle and pay his and his family’s personal expenses in Afghanistan and in the United States. If convicted at trial, Pena likely faces three years in prison but could receive the maximum punishment of five years in prison, a $250,000 fine, no more than three years of supervised release, and forfeiture to the United States of any property traceable to the conspiracy to commit bribery. This case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Daniel P. Butler of the Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section and by Assistant United States Attorney Nute A. Bonner. These matters were investigated by the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, FBI, Army Criminal Investigative Division, Defense Criminal Investigative Service, and Air Force Office of Special Investigation. The filing of a Criminal Information is an accusation only and that person is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption Michael J. Moore, United States Attorney for the Middle District of Georgia announced that former Sgt. Arthur Howard, 44, former officer Jimmy Lee Denson, 45, and former officer Decarlo C. Latimore, 38 were sentenced today by the Honorable Marc T. Treadwell, United States District Judge in Macon. They were each sentenced to three years of probation for conversion of government property. Further, they will have to surrender their Georgia Police Officer Certification. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorneys Michael Solis, Beth Howard, and Kim Easterling prosecuted the case on behalf of the Government. Inquiries regarding the case should be directed to Pam Lightsey at the United States Attorney’s Office at 478-752-3511.
corruption TAMPA, FL—United States Attorney A. Lee Bentley, III announces that Wenston DeSue (44, Bradenton) today pleaded guilty to theft of federal funds. He faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in federal prison. A sentencing date has not yet been set. According to the plea agreement, from on or about January 1, 2006, until September 19, 2013, DeSue was employed as the Executive Director of the Bradenton Housing Authority (“BHA”). The BHA is a local housing authority agency of the City of Bradenton. Each year, the BHA receives $10,000 or more in federal funds from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”). An investigation by the HUD, Office of Inspector General and the Federal Bureau of Investigation revealed that between September 2010 and September 2013, DeSue was significantly absent from the BHA on a routine basis, engaged in non-BHA activities during work hours, and failed to take annual or sick leave for those absences. Despite being absent from the BHA much of the time, he accepted his regular salary. DeSue typically arrived at the BHA at least one and a half to three hours late each day, took extended multi-hour lunches, ran personal errands during the work day, and left early from the BHA—all without taking some form of leave. In addition, he spent personal time with the BHA Project Director, Stephany West, with whom he was romantically involved. On numerous occasions, the two spent personal time together during the workday when they should have been working or on some form of leave. On some days, DeSue failed to show up to work at all, yet he still collected payment from the BHA as if he had been at work. During the period of September 2010 through September 2012, DeSue was absent and engaged in non-BHA activities at least 30 percent of the time. He engaged in the same behavior approximately 60 percent of the time from September 2012 through September 19, 2013. In total, DeSue stole and converted to his own use $204,756.43 from the BHA by taking salary, benefits, and bonuses that he had not earned and to which he was not entitled. He stole another $71,543.60 by cashing out unused annual and sick leave, which he should have otherwise used while spending work hours attending to personal affairs. Thus, DeSue’s actions caused a total loss to the BHA of approximately $276,300.03. Stephany West pleaded guilty to theft of federal funds on March 20, 2015, and is awaiting sentencing. This case was investigated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Office of Inspector General, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, and the Bradenton Police Department. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Jennifer L. Peresie and Simon A. Gaugush.
corruption ALEXANDRIA, VA—Robert Lee Foster, 65, formerly of Falls Church, Virginia, was indicted by a federal grand jury today on charges of wire fraud. According to the indictment, from 2008 through May 2015, Foster, who is a former career staff member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, devised a scheme to fraudulently obtain money and property from at least three women. The women are not named, but, according to the indictment, Foster targeted them due to their vulnerability—including their age, health, and marital and family situations—and used his status as a current or retired staff member of the United States Senate to gain their trust and confidence. The indictment alleges that Foster made various false and fraudulent representations to the women in order to get them to send him money, approximately $500,000, which they did, and that Foster spent the money they sent him for his own personal use and benefit. Foster faces a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison if convicted. The maximum statutory sentence is prescribed by Congress and is provided here for informational purposes, as the sentencing of the defendant will be determined by the court based on the advisory Sentencing Guidelines and other statutory factors. Dana J. Boente, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia; and Assistant Attorney General Leslie Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, made the announcement after the indictment was returned. This case was investigated by the FBI’s Washington Field Office. Assistant U.S. Attorney Jamar Walker and Trial Attorneys Kevin Driscoll and Peter Halpern of the Public Integrity Section in the Justice Department’s Criminal Division are prosecuting the case. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the U.S. Attorney’s Office http://www.justice.gov/usao/vae for the Eastern District of Virginia. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court http://www.vaed.uscourts.gov for the Eastern District of Virginia or on PACER https://pcl.uscourts.gov by searching for Case No. 1:15cr148. An indictment contains allegations that a defendant has committed a crime. Every defendant is presumed to be innocent until and unless proven guilty in court.
corruption BROOKLYN, NY—A 47-count indictment was unsealed early this morning in federal court in Brooklyn charging 14 defendants with racketeering, wire fraud, and money laundering conspiracies, among other offenses, in connection with the defendants’ participation in a 24-year scheme to enrich themselves through the corruption of international soccer. The guilty pleas of four individual defendants and two corporate defendants were also unsealed today. The defendants charged in the indictment include high-ranking officials of the Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA), the organization responsible for the regulation and promotion of soccer worldwide, as well as leading officials of other soccer governing bodies that operate under the FIFA umbrella. The defendants Jeffrey Webb and Jack Warner—the current and former presidents CONCACAF, the continental confederation under FIFA headquartered in the United States—are among the soccer officials charged with racketeering and bribery offenses. The defendants also include U.S. and South American sports marketing executives who are alleged to have systematically paid and agreed to pay well over $150 million in bribes and kickbacks to obtain lucrative media and marketing rights to international soccer tournaments. The charges were announced by Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch; Kelly T. Currie, Acting U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York; James B. Comey, Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI); Diego W. Rodriguez, Assistant Director-in-Charge, FBI, New York Field Office; Richard Weber, Chief, Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Criminal Investigation; and Special Agent in Charge Erick Martinez, IRS Criminal Investigation, Los Angeles Field Office. Also earlier this morning, Swiss authorities in Zurich arrested seven of the defendants charged in the indictment, the defendants Jeffrey Webb, Eduardo Li, Julio Rocha, Costas Takkas, Eugenio Figueredo, Rafael Esquivel, and José Maria Marin, at the request of the United States.1 The guilty pleas of the four individual and two corporate defendants that were also unsealed today include the guilty pleas of Charles Blazer, the long-serving former general secretary of CONCACAF and former U.S. representative on the FIFA executive committee; José Hawilla, the owner and founder of the Traffic Group, a multinational sports marketing conglomerate headquartered in Brazil; and two of Hawilla’s companies, Traffic Sports International, Inc. and Traffic Sports USA, Inc., which is based in Florida. “The indictment alleges corruption that is rampant, systemic, and deep-rooted both abroad and here in the United States,” said Attorney General Lynch. “It spans at least two generations of soccer officials who, as alleged, have abused their positions of trust to acquire millions of dollars in bribes and kickbacks. And it has profoundly harmed a multitude of victims, from the youth leagues and developing countries that should benefit from the revenue generated by the commercial rights these organizations hold, to the fans at home and throughout the world whose support for the game makes those rights valuable. Today’s action makes clear that this Department of Justice intends to end any such corrupt practices, to root out misconduct, and to bring wrongdoers to justice—and we look forward to continuing to work with other countries in this effort.” Attorney General Lynch extended her grateful appreciation to the authorities of the government of Switzerland, as well as several other international partners, for their outstanding assistance in this investigation. “Today’s announcement should send a message that enough is enough. After decades of what the indictment alleges to be brazen corruption, organized international soccer needs a new start—a new chance for its governing institutions to provide honest oversight and support of a sport that is beloved across the world, increasingly so here in the United States. Let me be clear: this indictment is not the final chapter in our investigation,” stated Acting United States Attorney Currie. Mr. Currie extended his thanks to the agents, analysts, and other investigative personnel with the FBI New York Eurasian Joint Organized Crime Squad and the IRS Criminal Investigation Los Angeles Field Office, as well as their colleagues abroad, for their tremendous effort in this case. “As charged in the indictment, the defendants fostered a culture of corruption and greed that created an uneven playing field for the biggest sport in the world. Undisclosed and illegal payments, kickbacks, and bribes became a way of doing business at FIFA. I want to commend the investigators and prosecutors around the world who have pursued this case so diligently, for so many years,” said FBI Director Comey. “When leaders in an organization resort to cheating the very members that they are supposed to represent, they must be held accountable,” said IRS Criminal Investigation Chief Weber. “Corruption, tax evasion, and money laundering are certainly not the cornerstones of any successful business. Whether you call it soccer or football, the fans, players, and sponsors around the world who love this game should not have to worry about officials corrupting their sport. This case isn’t about soccer, it is about fairness and following the law. IRS CI will continue to investigate financial crimes and follow the money wherever it may lead around the world, leveling the playing field for those who obey the law.” The charges in the indictment are merely allegations, and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. The Enterprise FIFA is composed of 209 member associations, each representing organized soccer in a particular nation or territory, including the United States and four of its overseas territories. FIFA also recognizes six continental confederations that assist it in governing soccer in different regions of the world. The U.S. Soccer Federation is one of 41 member associations of the confederation known as CONCACAF, which has been headquartered in the United States throughout the period charged in the indictment. The South American confederation, called CONMEBOL, is also a focus of the indictment. As alleged in the indictment, FIFA and its six continental confederations, together with affiliated regional federations, national member associations, and sports marketing companies, constitute an enterprise of legal entities associated in fact for purposes of the federal racketeering laws. The principal—and entirely legitimate—purpose of the enterprise is to regulate and promote the sport of soccer worldwide. As alleged in the indictment, one key way the enterprise derives revenue is to commercialize the media and marketing rights associated with soccer events and tournaments. The organizing entity that owns those rights—as FIFA and CONCACAF do with respect to the World Cup and the Gold Cup, their respective flagship tournaments—sells them to sports marketing companies, often through multi-year contracts covering multiple editions of the tournaments. The sports marketing companies, in turn, sell the rights downstream to TV and radio broadcast networks, major corporate sponsors, and other sub-licensees who want to broadcast the matches or promote their brands. The revenue generated from these contracts is substantial: according to FIFA, 70% of its $5.7 billion in total revenues between 2011 and 2014 was attributable to the sale of TV and marketing rights to the 2014 World Cup. The Racketeering Conspiracy The indictment alleges that, between 1991 and the present, the defendants and their co-conspirators corrupted the enterprise by engaging in various criminal activities, including fraud, bribery, and money laundering. Two generations of soccer officials abused their positions of trust for personal gain, frequently through an alliance with unscrupulous sports marketing executives who shut out competitors and kept highly lucrative contracts for themselves through the systematic payment of bribes and kickbacks. All told, the soccer officials are charged with conspiring to solicit and receive well over $150 million in bribes and kickbacks in exchange for their official support of the sports marketing executives who agreed to make the unlawful payments. Most of the schemes alleged in the indictment relate to the solicitation and receipt of bribes and kickbacks by soccer officials from sports marketing executives in connection with the commercialization of the media and marketing rights associated with various soccer matches and tournaments, including FIFA World Cup qualifiers in the CONCACAF region, the CONCACAF Gold Cup, the CONCACAF Champions League, the jointly organized CONMEBOL/CONCACAF Copa América Centenario, the CONMEBOL Copa América, the CONMEBOL Copa Libertadores, and the Copa do Brasil, which is organized by the Brazilian national soccer federation (CBF). Other alleged schemes relate to the payment and receipt of bribes and kickbacks in connection with the sponsorship of CBF by a major U.S. sportswear company, the selection of the host country for the 2010 World Cup, and the 2011 FIFA presidential election. The Indicted Defendants As set forth in the indictment, the defendants and their co-conspirators fall generally into three categories: soccer officials acting in a fiduciary capacity within FIFA and one or more of its constituent organizations; sports media and marketing company executives; and businessmen, bankers, and other trusted intermediaries who laundered illicit payments. Nine of the defendants were FIFA officials by operation of the FIFA statutes, as well as officials of one or more other bodies: Jeffrey Webb: Current FIFA vice president and executive committee member, CONCACAF president, Caribbean Football Union (CFU) executive committee member, and Cayman Islands Football Association (CIFA) president. Eduardo Li: Current FIFA executive committee member-elect, CONCACAF executive committee member, and Costa Rican soccer federation (FEDEFUT) president. Julio Rocha: Current FIFA development officer. Former Central American Football Union (UNCAF) president and Nicaraguan soccer federation (FENIFUT) president. Costas Takkas: Current attaché to the CONCACAF president. Former CIFA general secretary. Jack Warner: Former FIFA vice president and executive committee member, CONCACAF president, CFU president, and Trinidad and Tobago Football Federation (TTFF) special adviser. Eugenio Figueredo: Current FIFA vice president and executive committee member. Former CONMEBOL president and Uruguayan soccer federation (AUF) president. Rafael Esquivel: Current CONMEBOL executive committee member and Venezuelan soccer federation (FVF) president. José Maria Marin: Current member of the FIFA organizing committee for the Olympic football tournaments. Former CBF president. Nicolás Leoz: Former FIFA executive committee member and CONMEBOL president. Four of the defendants were sports marketing executives: Alejandro Burzaco: Controlling principal of Torneos y Competencias S.A., a sports marketing business based in Argentina, and its affiliates. Aaron Davidson: President of Traffic Sports USA, Inc. (Traffic USA). Hugo and Mariano Jinkis: Controlling principals of Full Play Group S.A., a sports marketing business based in Argentina, and its affiliates. And one of the defendants was in the broadcasting business but allegedly served as an intermediary to facilitate illicit payments between sports marketing executives and soccer officials: José Margulies: Controlling principal of Valente Corp. and Somerton Ltd. The Convicted Individuals and Corporations The following individuals and corporations previously pled guilty under seal: On July 15, 2013, the defendant Daryll Warner, son of defendant Jack Warner and a former FIFA development officer, waived indictment and pled guilty to a two-count information charging him with wire fraud and the structuring of financial transactions. On October 25, 2013, the defendant Daryan Warner, son of defendant Jack Warner and a businessman, waived indictment and pled guilty to a three-count information charging him with wire fraud conspiracy, money laundering conspiracy, and the structuring of financial transactions. Daryan Warner forfeited over $1.1 million around the time of his plea and has agreed to pay a second forfeiture money judgment at the time of sentencing. On November 25, 2013, the defendant Charles Blazer, the former CONCACAF general secretary and a former FIFA executive committee member, waived indictment and pled guilty to a 10-count information charging him with racketeering conspiracy, wire fraud conspiracy, money laundering conspiracy, income tax evasion, and failure to file a Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts (FBAR). Blazer forfeited over $1.9 million at the time of his plea and has agreed to pay a second amount to be determined at the time of sentencing. On December 12, 2014, the defendant José Hawilla, the owner and founder of the Traffic Group, the Brazilian sports marketing conglomerate, waived indictment and pled guilty to a four-count information charging him with racketeering conspiracy, wire fraud conspiracy, money laundering conspiracy, and obstruction of justice. Hawilla also agreed to forfeit over $151 million, $25 million of which was paid at the time of his plea. On May 14, 2015, the defendants Traffic Sports USA, Inc. and Traffic Sports International, Inc. pled guilty to wire fraud conspiracy. All money forfeited by the defendants is being held in reserve to ensure its availability to satisfy any order of restitution entered at sentencing for the benefit of any individuals or entities that qualify as victims of the defendants’ crimes under federal law. The indictment unsealed today has been assigned to the Honorable Raymond J. Dearie, United States District Judge for the Eastern District of New York. The indicted and convicted individual defendants face maximum terms of incarceration of 20 years for the RICO conspiracy, wire fraud conspiracy, wire fraud, money laundering conspiracy, money laundering, and obstruction of justice charges. In addition, the defendant Eugenio Figueredo faces a maximum term of incarceration of 10 years for a charge of naturalization fraud and could have his U.S. citizenship revoked. He also faces a maximum term of incarceration of five years for each tax charge. The defendant Charles Blazer faces a maximum term of incarceration of 10 years for the FBAR charge and five years for the tax evasion charges; and the defendants Daryan and Daryll Warner face maximum terms of incarceration of 10 years for structuring financial transactions to evade currency reporting requirements. Each individual defendant also faces mandatory restitution, forfeiture, and a fine. By the terms of their plea agreements, the corporate defendants face fines of $500,000 and one year of probation. The government’s investigation is ongoing. The government’s case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Evan M. Norris, Amanda Hector, Darren A. LaVerne, Samuel P. Nitze, Keith D. Edelman, and Brian D. Morris, with assistance provided by the Justice Department’s Office of International Affairs and Organized Crime and Gang Section. The Indicted Defendants: ALEJANDRO BURZACO Age: 50 Nationality: Argentina AARON DAVIDSON Age: 44 Nationality: USA RAFAEL ESQUIVEL Age: 68 Nationality: Venezuela EUGENIO FIGUEREDO Age: 83 Nationality: USA, Uruguay HUGO JINKIS Age: 70 Nationality: Argentina MARIANO JINKIS Age: 40 Nationality: Argentina NICOLÁS LEOZ Age: 86 Nationality: Paraguay EDUARDO LI Age: 56 Nationality: Costa Rica JOSÉ MARGULIES, also known as José Lazaro Age: 75 Nationality: Brazil JOSÉ MARIA MARIN Age: 83 Nationality: Brazil JULIO ROCHA Age: 64 Nationality: Nicaragua COSTAS TAKKAS Age: 58 Nationality: United Kingdom JACK WARNER Age: 72 Nationality: Trinidad and Tobago JEFFREY WEBB Age: 50 Nationality: Cayman Islands The Convicted Defendants: CHARLES BLAZER Age: 70 Nationality: USA JOSÉ HAWILLA Age: 71 Nationality: Brazil DARYAN WARNER Age: 46 Nationality: Trinidad and Tobago, Grenada DARYLL WARNER Age: 40 Nationality: USA, Trinidad and Tobago TRAFFIC SPORTS INTERNATIONAL, INC. Registered: British Virgin Islands TRAFFIC SPORTS USA, INC. Registered: USA E.D.N.Y. Docket Numbers: United States v. Daryll Warner, 13 Cr. 402 (WFK) United States v. Daryan Warner, 13 Cr. 584 (WFK) United States v. Charles Blazer, 13 Cr. 602 (RJD) United States v. José Hawilla, 14 Cr. 609 (RJD) United States v. Traffic Sports International, Inc., 14 Cr. 609 (RJD) United States v. Traffic Sports USA, Inc., 14 Cr. 609 (RJD) United States v. Jeffrey Webb et al., 15 Cr. 252 (RJD) 1 Also this morning, a search warrant is being executed at CONCACAF headquarters in Miami, Florida. Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption PORTLAND, OR—Ellis McCoy, former Manager of Portland’s Parking Operations Division, was sentenced today by U.S. District Court Judge Marco Hernandez to 24 months in prison after his conviction for taking almost $200,000 in bribes from two city contractors from 2002 to mid-2011. In August 2012, a year after FBI and IRS agents executed search warrants at McCoy’s office and home, McCoy pleaded guilty to conspiring to accept bribes, accepting bribes, and filing false tax returns on which he did not report a substantial amount of the bribe income. McCoy admitted he gave favorable treatment to the city contractors in return for $164,567 in checks and currency plus the value of travel, meals, lodging, and other expenses of an undetermined amount. During its investigation, the government proved McCoy created a phony consulting company and submitted invoices for fictitious consulting work so he and the contractors could disguise some of the bribe payments as payments for consulting work. The government also proved McCoy accepted about $70,000 of the bribe payments in cash and that the contractors paid for some or all of his meals, travel, and entertainment expenses on about 60 trips for business and pleasure. “The citizens of Portland are entitled to an honest day’s work from every City employee and they did not get that from Ellis McCoy,” said Acting U.S. Attorney Billy J. Williams. “Instead, McCoy broke trust with Portland and its citizens and rigged the contracting for smart parking meters in favor of those who bribed him. The U.S. Attorney’s Office, the FBI, and the IRS will always make it a priority to aggressively investigate and prosecute those involved in public corruption of any kind.” George Levey, former president of Cale Parking Systems USA, Inc. and one of the contractors who bribed McCoy, pleaded guilty on April 29, 2015, and is scheduled to be sentenced on August 11, 2015. This case was investigated by the FBI and the Criminal Investigation Division of the Internal Revenue Service. The case is being handled by Assistant U.S. Attorney Seth D. Uram.
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, and Patricia M. Ferrick, Special Agent in Charge of the New Haven Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, announced that FRANK BIANCUR, JR., 40, of West Haven, was arrested today on a federal criminal complaint charging him with seeking and receiving illegal payments while employed as a Zoning Enforcement Officer for the Town of East Haven. According to the criminal complaint and to statements made in court, BIANCUR has been employed as the Town of East Haven’s Planning and Zoning Administrator/Zoning Enforcement Officer. Earlier this month, a resident of East Haven contacted the East Haven Police Department and the FBI with information that he/she had been extorted by BIANCUR since approximately October 2012 and, as a result, had made cash payments to BIANCUR. The complaint alleges that, most recently, on May 19, 2015, BIANCUR called the victim and informed the victim that BIANCUR had to inspect an addition to the victim’s residence. Although BIANCUR stated that he was “fighting” for the victim, he also demanded a payment of $200 or he would make the victim tear down the addition. On May 21, 2015, the victim engaged in a consensually-recorded meeting with BIANCUR at BIANCUR’s office in East Haven Town Hall. During the meeting, the victim gave BIANCUR $200 in cash, which BIANCUR put in his pocket. The complaint charges BIANCUR with one count of theft of honest services mail fraud, which carries a maximum term of imprisonment of 20 years. BIANCUR was arrested this morning at his residence. He appeared before U.S. Magistrate Judge Sarah A.L. Merriam in New Haven and was released on a $20,000 bond. Prior to his employment by the Town of East Haven, BIANCUR was employed by the City of West Haven and the City of Bridgeport. Citizens with information that may be helpful to this ongoing investigation are encouraged to contact the FBI at (203) 777-6311. U.S. Attorney Daly stressed that a complaint is only a charge and is not evidence of guilt. Charges are only allegations, and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. This matter is being investigated by the Connecticut Public Corruption Task Force and the East Haven Police Department. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher W. Schmeisser. The Connecticut Public Corruption Task Force includes the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation Division, U.S. Postal Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development—Office of Inspector General and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services—Office of Inspector General. Citizens can contact the Task Force to report corrupt activity by calling 1-800-CALL-FBI (1-800-225-5324).
corruption CHICAGO—A former chief of staff for a Chicago alderman was sentenced today to 15 months in prison for accepting a $7,500 cash bribe in exchange for obtaining the alderman’s letter of support for a license to sell alcohol in the alderman’s ward. The defendant, CURTIS V. THOMPSON, JR., 63, of Chicago, pled guilty in December 2014 to federal program bribery, in accepting a bribe from an individual who claimed he wanted to open a convenience store but was actually a cooperating witness in an FBI undercover investigation. U.S. District Court Judge Samuel Der-Yeghiayan also sentenced Thompson to one year of supervision after his release and to forfeit $7,500, the amount of the bribe. Thompson was ordered to surrender to the U.S. Bureau of Prisons on September 1, 2015. According to court documents, Thompson accepted 75 $100 bills in a Christmas card that the cooperating witness gave him at the alderman’s holiday party in December 2013. Thompson admitted that he used the money he received to pay personal expenses. “Over the years, time and time again, officials have demonstrated their greed,” said Judge Der-Yeghiayan while imposing sentence. “His job was to serve the citizens of Chicago, and he did not.” “He (Thompson) readily joined the ranks of corrupt public officials who have chosen to line their pockets at the public’s expense,” argued Assistant U.S. Attorney Megan Church in the government’s sentencing memorandum. “He gave the residents of Chicago one more reason to doubt its leaders and public officials; one more reason to question the legitimacy of their municipal government; and one more reason to give into the cynicism of a “where’s mine?” The sentence was announced by Zachary T. Fardon, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois, and Robert J. Holley, Special Agent-in-Charge of the Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The government was represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Megan Church and Bethany Biesenthal.
corruption Miami Springs Police Department (MSPD) Sergeant Andres Quintanilla arrested today on a corruption charge. Wifredo A. Ferrer, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, and George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, FBI, Miami Field Office, made the announcement. Andres Quintanilla, 33, of Miami Springs Police Department, was charged by complaint with attempting to affect commerce by extortion under color of official right, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1951(a), punishable by up to twenty years in prison. According to the allegations contained in the complaint, in September 2014, an FBI confidential source (CS) informed Quintanilla that he (the CS) was a drug trafficker. Rather than arrest the CS, or open an investigation, Quintanilla offered to help the CS’s drug trafficking business. During a series of recorded meetings, Quintanilla allegedly offered advice on how the CS should run his drug trafficking business, provided the location of an unmarked Miami Dade Police Department narcotics office, provided the names of three Miami Dade Police Department officers, and promised to provide photographs of officers in the future. In addition, Quintanilla ran the name of a purported drug dealer in a law enforcement database when asked to do so by CS. By December 2014, Quintanilla had agreed to act as an escort during a purported 10 kilogram cocaine deal. Under FBI direction, the CS told Quintanilla that the CS needed a safe location in Miami Springs where the CS could exchange 10 kilograms of cocaine for $250,000. Quintanilla chose a location for the transaction to take place and, on the date of the transaction, the FBI filmed and recorded Quintanilla meeting with the CS and viewing the cocaine. After the purported deal took place with a second undercover CS acting as a drug dealer, Quintanilla then followed the CS’s vehicle to an express package service center, where Quintanilla believed that the CS would ship the $250,000 of drug proceeds to New York. Quintanilla participated in the transaction in uniform, while driving his MSPD marked vehicle. In exchange for his assistance, Quintanilla accepted $3,500 in bribe payments. The complaint further alleges that in April 2015, FBI agents approached Quintanilla at his residence to discuss his involvement in the trafficking of narcotics. During the interview, Quintanilla admitted receiving bribes in return for assisting the CHS’s drug trafficking business. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI Miami Area Corruption Task Force and the Miami Springs Police Department. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Anthony Lacosta. A criminal complaint is only an accusation and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Southern District of Florida at www.flsd.uscourts.gov or on http://pacer.flsd.uscourts.gov.
corruption MEMPHIS, TN—A former Deputy Court Clerk pled guilty Thursday to embezzling more than $24,000 from the City of Memphis during a year-long scheme. According to the indictment, from December 1, 2013 to December 1, 2014, Tammy Brooks-Carpenter, a Deputy Court Clerk at the time, voided 248 payments made by customers to the City Court Clerk’s office for traffic fines. By doing so, she was able to steal $24,011.50 of the approximate $43,230.50 paid to the government over that period. Brooks-Carpenter’s illegal actions placed her in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 666(a)(1)(A), which makes it a crime to embezzle money from a local government entity that receives in excess of $10,000 of federal assistance during a 12-month period. During Brooks-Carpenter’s employment at the City Court Clerk’s Office, her duties included accepting payments from customers who were issued motor vehicle citations by the City of Memphis. Brooks-Carpenter was required to enter all transactions into the Electronic Ticket Information System (ETIMS), which recorded the payments. But instead of submitting full payments to the ETIMS System, she voided them and entered in smaller amounts. The remaining funding would then be converted for Brooks-Carpenter’s personal use. As a result of Brooks-Carpenter not entering full payments, customers who paid their traffic tickets would receive a “Blue Letter,” essentially a written message sent out by the City of Memphis to individuals who haven’t paid a fine in the designated timeframe. Brooks-Carpenter faces up to 10 years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000 when sentenced. U.S. District Judge John T. Fowlkes, Jr., who presided over the court, set sentencing for August 21, 2015 at 10 a.m. Assistant U.S. Attorney Brian K. Coleman is representing the government in this case. The Federal Bureau of Investigation, Memphis Police Department, and the Tarnished Badge Task Force investigated this case.
corruption SAN FRANCISCO—Former San Francisco Police Officer Reynaldo Vargas was sentenced today to 12 months in prison for his participation in a conspiracy to steal money and property and provide illegal drugs to informants, announced United States Attorney Melinda Haag and FBI Special Agent in Charge David J. Johnson. Vargas, 46, was indicted by a federal grand jury on February 25, 2014. He pleaded guilty on October 21, 2014, to conspiracy to distribute controlled substances, in violation of 21 U.S.C. § 846; distribution of marijuana, in violation of 21 U.S.C. § 84; conspiracy to commit theft concerning a federally funded program, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 666(a); and theft concerning a federally funded program, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 666(a). According to the plea agreement, Vargas admitted that he and two other SFPD officers, Ian Furminger and Edmond Robles, repeatedly stole money and property during searches and arrests. Vargas also admitted the officers kept the stolen items for themselves and that he provided drugs seized by the SFPD to informants. Vargas testified at the trial of Furminger and Robles, who were convicted by a jury in San Francisco on December 15, 2014. After their convictions, Furminger was sentenced to a term of 41 months in prison and Robles was sentenced to a term of 39 months. Vargas’s 12-month sentence was handed down by the Honorable Charles R. Breyer, U.S. District Judge. Judge Breyer also sentenced Vargas to a three year term of supervised release. Vargas was given two months to voluntarily surrender to begin serving his sentence. In sentencing Vargas, Judge Breyer described Vargas’s testimony as “crucial, essential, to the successful prosecution of the case.” Judge Breyer described the testimony as “genuine” and lauded Vargas for truly accepting responsibility and making a concerted effort to transform his life for the better. The Court acknowledged the difficulty of testifying as a police officer against other police officers and said that he “hope[d] that other police officers understand that when they see this type of activity by colleagues . . . it hurts them, as well as the police officers who are involved.” The investigation that led to Vargas’s plea and cooperation began with the public release of a videotape showing SFPD officers entering a single room occupancy hotel room without a warrant. The investigation, which was conducted by the FBI and SFPD Internal Affairs Division, grew to include, among other things, allegations that Vargas, Robles, and Furminger engaged in the theft of tens of thousands of dollars and valuable property during the course of performing their official duties. The officers also filed false police reports that did not identify the money and property they had stolen. “The misconduct of the police officers prosecuted in this case damaged the credibility of good police officers everywhere,” said United States Attorney Melinda Haag. “Without the trust of the community, police officers are not able to safely and effectively do their jobs,” she said. At Vargas’s sentencing, Judge Breyer said that this is one of the most serious cases he has seen as a district judge. He described why it is critical that police officers act with honesty and integrity: Police officers go out every day putting their lives at risk, and you have done that repeatedly. And whether they come back at night, whether they can perform their duties, in large part, depends on whether the public accepts them as guardians of their safety. You are the agents of all of us. You are the people out on the street representing every judge, every prosecutor, every defense lawyer, and everybody else who lives in this city, including those people who are so vulnerable that they have fallen susceptible to disease, to addiction, to a way of crime. You represent them. . . . And the success of your task, of all of our tasks, is that society accepts what we do, they think that the system is fair, they think that the prosecutor, the defense lawyer, the judge, the police officer, will be fair in administering the law. . . . [A]nything that detracts from the credibility of the people who are involved in the justice system, jeopardizes the justice system . . . . And unless we have a system that is credible, we are no different, no different at all, from any totalitarian state in which police, prosecutors, judges, lawyers, act capriciously, act without due process. This case was prosecuted by the Special Prosecutions and National Security Unit of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of California. It is the result of an investigation conducted by the FBI’s San Francisco Division, with the assistance of the SFPD Internal Affairs Division.
corruption HONOLULU—Marvin L. Ware, 46, a Sergeant First Class with the 25th Infantry Division, 325th Brigade Support Battalion, Alpha Company, Schofield Army Barracks, Hawaii has been indicted and arrested on federal charges arising from his alleged role in a scheme to steal jet fuel from Forward Operating Base Fenty, near Jalalabad, Afghanistan, in exchange for cash bribes from an Afghan trucking contractor. According to an Indictment returned on May 20, 2015 by the federal grand jury in Hawai, during late 2011 and early 2012, FOB Fenty served as a regional fuel depot which supplied outlying U.S. military bases with JP8 jet fuel. Fuel deliveries were made by a local Afghan contractor, which transported the fuel in 3,000 gallon tanker trucks, termed “jingle trucks.” The Indictment alleges that between December 2011 and February 2012, Ware and two other servicemen, Sergeant Regionald Dixon and Specialist Larry Emmons, conspired to accept, and accepted, bribes in return for participating with the contractor in the theft of jet fuel from FOB Fenty. According to the Indictment, Ware and the others agreed to fill and divert jingle trucks, in return for which they received $6,000 for each truckload of stolen fuel. The Indictment specifically alleges that Ware, Dixon and Emmons filled the jingle trucks with jet fuel, using United States military equipment, at clandestine locations and at times not likely to arouse suspicion. According to the Indictment, Ware and Emmons facilitated their scheme by creating fraudulent official military documents purporting to authorize the movement of fuel from FOB Fenty to other locations. Dixon and Emmons were charged and pled guilty to bribery charges in June 2012 for their participation in the scheme. Ware was charged yesterday with conspiring to solicit and accept bribes, one count of bribery, one count of theft, and one count of money laundering based on the transfer, from Afghanistan to Wahiawa, Hawaii, of $25,000 which he knew were proceeds of his offenses, and which transfer was designed to conceal the nature, source and ownership of the funds. Ware was arrested on May 21, 2015, and appeared in federal court, where he pled not guilty to all charges. Trial was scheduled for July 21, 2015 before United States District Judge Leslie E. Kobayashi. If convicted, Ware will face maximum penalties of five years’ imprisonment for the conspiracy offense, 15 years’ imprisonment for the bribery offense, 20 years’ imprisonment for the money laundering offense, and ten years’ imprisonment for the theft offense, as well as the forfeiture of the proceeds of the illegal activity. An indictment is merely an accusation, and Ware is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty. Ware is the seventh person charged as part of an ongoing, national investigation into the theft of fuel at FOB Fenty. In addition to Ware, Dixon and Emmons, Sergeant Christopher Weaver, Specialist Stephanie Charboneau, civilian Jonathan Hightower, and Sergeant First Class Kevin Abdullah were prosecuted in the District of Colorado and the Western District of Kentucky, respectively, for a separate scheme to steal fuel from FOB Fenty in 2010. “It’s very troubling to discover that critical military supplies were stolen by the very people who are supposed to be protecting and serving our country,” said U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of California Laura Duffy. “That such corruption allegedly occurred in a war zone makes it even worse.” “Today’s arrest again demonstrates our continued resolve to prosecute all corrupt public officials, at whatever level, wherever their conduct occurs,” added Florence E. Nakakuni, U.S. Attorney for Hawaii. “SIGAR has been at the forefront of a Southwest Asia theft of fuel initiative, which to date has prosecuted seven individuals, recovered over $1.6 million in illegal criminal proceeds and $20 million in civil penalties, and in the process, improved the safety and security of the supply of fuel to our Warfighters in Afghanistan. With the resources at our disposal, we will continue to identify and protect such strategic priorities through innovative, proactive investigatory measures, such as those that have proven so effective in these cases,” said John Sopko, the Special Inspector General of Afghanistan Reconstruction. “It is reprehensible when a military service member abandons his ethical responsibilities and violates the sacred public trust for personal enrichment,” said Special Agent in Charge Janice M. Flores, of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (“DCIS”) Southwest Field Office, Arlington, TX. “Today’s arrest demonstrates the continued commitment of the DCIS, along with our law enforcement partners, to aggressively investigate and prosecute anyone who commits this kind of crime in order to protect the integrity of the Department of Defense and the sacrifices of the American public, especially those service members who are serving honorably and selflessly in Southwest Asia.” The case is being investigated by SIGAR, DCIS, Army CID, and the Defense Contract Audit Agency, with substantial assistance from the FBI, and prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Mark W. Pletcher of the Southern District of California and Ken Sorenson of the District of Hawaii. Anyone with information relating to fraud or corruption in government contracting should contact the DOD Hotline at www.dodig.mil/hotline, or call (800) 424-9098.
corruption COLUMBIA, SC—The United States Attorney’s Office announced that Jonathan Pinson, age 45, of Greenville, South Carolina was sentenced today in federal court in Columbia, South Carolina, for Conspiracy to Commit Racketeering (Count 1), Theft Concerning Programs Receiving Federal Funds (Counts 2,3) Conspiracy to Commit Wire Fraud (Counts 12, 18), Mail Fraud (Counts 25, 26), Wire Fraud (Counts 27-34), Money Laundering (Counts 35-41) and False Statements (Counts 43-46 and 48-50). United States District Judge David C. Norton of Columbia sentenced Mr. Pinson to 60 months concurrent on each count of conviction, to be followed by five years’ supervised release. Judge Norton imposed restitution in the amount of $337,843.05. In June 2014, a jury convicted Mr. Pinson for his involvement in four different schemes. One scheme revolved around the 2011 homecoming concert at SCSU and Mr. Pinson’s efforts to steer the concert promotion contract to his close friend and former SCSU roommate in exchange for a kickback. Other schemes included Mr. Pinson’s theft of government funds earmarked for the installation of a diaper plant in Marion County. Evidence showed that proceeds from the grant, intended to create jobs in rural Marion County, were instead pocketed by Mr. Pinson and his associates, Lance Wright, Tony Williams, and Phil Mims, each of whom has pled guilty to charges related to the fraud. Mr. Pinson was also convicted of theft of government funds received from a 10 million dollar American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) grant (commonly known as stimulus money) intended for the development known as the Village at Rivers Edge (VRE). In the final scheme Mr. Pinson again used his position as Chairman of the Board of SCSU to influence officials at SCSU to purchase land known as “Sportsman’s Retreat”. The seller of the property, Richard Zahn, Pinson’s business partner, testified that he agreed to pay a kickback to Mr. Pinson in the form of a new Porsche Cayenne, an SUV valued at approximately 90 thousand dollars. During the two and one-half week trial, the Government called twenty witnesses, introduced approximately 200 exhibits and played 118 secretly recorded telephone calls. The calls, authorized by a court ordered wiretap, covered from July 21 to November 20, 2011. “The FBI, and its local, state, and federal law enforcement partners, remain vigilant in the fight against Public Corruption and are committed to bringing to justice those who abuse public trust,” said FBI Special Agent in Charge David A. Thomas. In thanking his law enforcement partners, SAC Thomas added, “The investigation that gave rise to this indictment and the conviction of Mr. Pinson and others is an example of the excellent work being done by the South Carolina Public Corruption Task Force which includes the FBI, the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division and IRS.” Special Agent in Charge Thomas Holloman said, “The Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigations, is committed to using our agent’s expertise in ‘following the money’ to bring accountability to public officials who steal taxpayer dollars to fund their prodigal lifestyles.” The case was investigated by agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), State Law Enforcement Division (SLED), Department of Housing and Urban Development, Office of Inspector General (HUD-OIG) and Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigations (IRS-CI). Assistant United States Attorney Nancy Wicker, Jane Taylor, Dewayne Pearson, and J.D. Rowell of the Columbia office prosecuted the case.
corruption SPRINGFIELD, MO—Tammy Dickinson, United States Attorney for the Western District of Missouri, announced that the elected sheriff of Christian County, Mo., pleaded guilty in federal court today to embezzling county funds and to his role in laundering the proceeds of a political supporter’s investment fraud scheme. “This elected sheriff stole taxpayers’ money and treated the county coffers as his own personal piggy bank,” Dickinson said. “Sheriff Kyle took money that was supposed to be for firearms and other supplies needed by his deputies. But his greed wasn’t limited to public dollars or to the taxpayers whose trust he betrayed. He also abused his position to promote a political supporter’s investment fraud scheme, and even used the criminal profits from the scheme to help bankroll his reelection. “The shameful actions of this defendant shouldn’t cast a shadow on the integrity and dedication of the vast majority of honest law enforcement officers,” Dickinson said. “No one is above the law. This disgraced law enforcement officer will be held accountable for his actions.” Joseph “Joey” Edward Kyle, 53, of Ozark, Mo., waived his right to a grand jury and pleaded guilty before U.S. Magistrate Judge David P. Rush to a federal information that charges him with one count of embezzling from Christian County and one count of participating in a money-laundering conspiracy. Under the terms of today’s plea agreement, Kyle must immediately resign his office as sheriff of Christian County. Kyle was elected to the sheriff’s office in 2008 and reelected in 2012. Christian County Embezzlement By pleading guilty today, Kyle admitted that he embezzled $50,290 from Christian County. Kyle submitted 22 fraudulent invoices and purchase orders to the county for goods and services that were never provided between Jan. 1, 2011, and Oct. 14, 2014. Kyle submitted those requisitions on behalf of EDI Plus, LLC, in Nixa, Mo. EDI was awarded a contract by the county to provide equipment—including firearms and ammunition—for the sheriff’s department from 2011 to 2014. Kyle received cash from EDI for his personal use then submitted fraudulent requisitions for goods and services purportedly supplied by EDI. In reality, no goods or services were provided; instead, these requisitions repaid EDI for the money Kyle personally received. Money Laundering Conspiracy Kyle also admitted today that he received $21,350 from another person, identified as “Subject #2” in court documents, for his role in promoting an investment fraud scheme. According to the plea agreement, Subject #2 owned and operated various companies and, from January 2008 to October 2014, engaged in an investment fraud scheme. Subject #2 solicited Kyle to assist him as a promoter of the scheme, to take advantage of the authority and prestige of Kyle’s position as county sheriff. Kyle referred potential investors, distributed promotional materials, served as a personal reference and recommended that victims invest money in Subject #2’s companies. In order to persuade potential investors, Subject #2 falsely informed them that Kyle had personally invested funds and that Kyle had assembled an investment group, comprised of deputy sheriffs and others, to invest in Subject #2’s companies. In reality, Kyle did not invest his personal funds in Subject #2’s companies. Instead, Subject #2 gave Kyle 50,000 shares in one of his companies, which Subject #2 normally sold to investors at the rate of one dollar per share. Kyle founded Five Rivers Management, LLC, purportedly as a law enforcement training company in 2011. He deposited the money he received from Subject #2 into the company’s bank account in order to conceal the source and nature of the payments, and to make them appear to be receipts from Kyle’s law enforcement training company. Subject #2 also made a $3,000 contribution, using victim investor funds, to Kyle’s political campaign on July 1, 2012. Between June 2012 and January 2014, Subject #2 received investment funds totaling approximately $952,670. At the time he promoted the investment fraud scheme, Kyle states that he believed Subject #2’s companies were legitimately engaged in efforts to bring their products to market. However, Kyle admitted the United States could prove he knew checks written to Five Rivers were the proceeds of some form of unlawful activity. Further, Kyle acknowledged that, at the very least, he deliberately closed his eyes to the fraud, which should have been obvious to him. Sentencing Under the terms of today’s plea agreement, Kyle will be sentenced to one year and one day in federal prison without parole. Kyle must pay $50,290 in restitution to Christian County and must forfeit to the government a money judgment of $71,640, representing the proceeds he received from his criminal conduct. Kyle must disclose and surrender any and all property that was purchased with county funds, including firearms, ammunition, vehicles, equipment, preserved food (meals-ready-to-eat) and other supplies. A sentencing hearing will be scheduled after the completion of a presentence investigation by the United States Probation Office. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys James J. Kelleher and Steven M. Mohlhenrich. It was investigated by the FBI, IRS-Criminal Investigation and the Missouri State Highway Patrol.
corruption Kirk Chambers, a former Trooper with the Florida Highway Patrol (FHP), pled guilty today before U.S. District Court Judge Cecilia Altonaga to participation in a bribery scheme. Wifredo A. Ferrer, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida and George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, FBI, Miami Field Office, made the announcement. On May 20, 2015, former FHP Trooper Kirk Chambers pleaded guilty to violating Title 18, United States Code, 1951(a) by participating in a conspiracy to affect commerce through extortion under color of law. Based upon his guilty plea, Chambers faces a maximum sentence of 20 years’ imprisonment, followed by up to three years’ supervised release, and a maximum fine of $250,000. Pursuant to the terms of the plea agreement, Chambers will also forfeit profits from his illegal activity. According to the facts set forth in court documents, Chambers was employed as a sworn FHP Trooper between 2006 and 2015. In 2013, the FBI and local law enforcement agencies opened an investigation into allegations that South Florida law enforcement personnel were being paid bribes by local wrecker operators to illegally solicit business from stranded drivers at accident scenes. Chambers was one of the officers identified as taking bribes. In 2014, an FBI confidential source (CHS) approached Guillermo “Tony” Sepulveda, the owner and operator of a local Miami based towing company. Under FBI direction, the CHS told Sepulveda that he had a corrupt “chiropractor” that was interested in purchasing confidential accident information from law enforcement in order to permit the chiropractor to illegally solicit business from the accident victims. Sepulveda agreed to participate and introduced the CHS to Trooper Chambers. Between September and November 2014, Chambers used his position to download the personal information of approximately 100 accident victims from FHP servers. Chambers provided that information to the CHS in return for $5,000, during a series of transactions. For his part in the conspiracy, Sepulveda was paid $1,200. On January 22, 2015, Chambers was interviewed by the FBI and admitted participating in the bribery scheme. Chambers also admitted being paid thousands of dollars in bribes by various tow truck operators for a number of years. U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer stated, “Public corruption erodes the bond between our public institutions and the communities that they serve. Today’s prosecution demonstrates the Justice Department’s commitment to holding officials accountable for their actions and upholding their oath to serve the public interest.” Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI Miami Area Corruption Task Force, Florida Division of Insurance Fraud and the Florida Highway Patrol. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Anthony Lacosta. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Southern District of Florida at www.flsd.uscourts.gov or on http://pacer.flsd.uscourts.gov.
corruption RICHMOND, VA—Jermaine Brown, 37, of Chesterfield, Virginia, was charged by a federal grand jury on May 19, 2015 with conspiracy to commit bribery, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 371; and bribery, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 201. Dana J. Boente, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia; Adam S. Lee, Special Agent-In-Charge of the FBI’s Richmond Field Office; and Michael Tompkins, Special Agent-In-Charge, Department of Justice, Office of the Inspector General, made the announcement after Brown’s initial appearance before U.S. Magistrate Judge David J. Novak. Brown faces a maximum penalty of 15 years in prison if convicted. The maximum statutory sentence is prescribed by Congress and is provided here for informational purposes, as the sentencing of the defendant will be determined by the court based on the advisory Sentencing Guidelines and other statutory factors. According to the indictment, from the Fall of 2010 until March 25, 2013, while employed as a federal correctional officer/recreational specialist at the Federal Correctional Institution-Medium, Petersburg, Virginia, Brown engaged in a conspiracy to smuggle heroin, marijuana, and cigarettes to multiple inmates within the prison in exchange for bribes. The indictment charges that inmates would have friends or family outside of the prison wire transfer money to Brown’s co-conspirator, who would then pay Brown. From December 2010 through March 2011, the indictment alleges, Brown received at least five wire transfers from inmates totaling $3,050.00 in exchange for contraband. This case was investigated by Department of Justice-Office of Inspector General and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant U.S. Attorney Erik S. Siebert is prosecuting the case on behalf of the United States. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia or on PACER by searching for Case No. 3:15CR93.
corruption Preet Bharara, United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, Diego Rodriguez, the Assistant Director-in-Charge of the New York Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (“FBI”), and Ronald R. Gardella, Special Agent-in-Charge of the Department of Justice, Office of the Inspector General (“DOJ-OIG”), announced today the arrest of DAVID POLOS, until recently an Assistant Special Agent-in-Charge with the Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”), and GLEN GLOVER, a DEA Information Technology Specialist, for allegedly making false statements to the government regarding their employment at an adult entertainment establishment. The Complaint alleges that POLOS, who supervised the Organized Crime and Drug Enforcement Strike Force, and GLOVER failed to disclose their employment at, and ownership interests in, an adult entertainment establishment (the “Club”) in Northern New Jersey in connection with a background check to determine their suitability as employees of a federal law enforcement agency with access to classified information. The national security forms POLOS and GLOVER allegedly submitted in connection with the background check require disclosure of outside employment in part due to concerns attendant to certain types of employment, including proximity to crime and persons involved in crime and the risk of employee blackmail. POLOS and GLOVER surrendered to the FBI in Manhattan this morning, and are scheduled to appear before U.S. Magistrate Judge Kevin Nathaniel Fox in Manhattan federal court later today. Manhattan U.S. Attorney Bharara said: “David Polos and Glen Glover had important and sensitive law enforcement jobs with the DEA. As alleged in the Complaint, they also had other secret jobs, which they concealed from DEA in order to maintain their national security clearance, betraying the oaths they had taken and creating needless risk for the agency they worked for.” FBI Assistant Director-in-Charge Rodriguez said: “We expect those in government—and particularly those charged with enforcing the law—to tell the truth. As alleged, the defendants’ lack of candor is what finds them before a judge today in Manhattan Federal Court.” DOJ-OIG Special Agent-in-Charge Gardella said: “Federal law enforcement officers must be held to the highest standards of integrity. The alleged conduct is serious and we will do everything we can to ensure that justice is done in this case.” According to the allegations in the Complaint unsealed today in Manhattan federal court: GLOVER and POLOS submitted national security forms in August and September 2011, respectively, that stated, among other things, that they did not have employment other than their DEA jobs within the previous seven years. In fact, as charged, GLOVER was the part owner of, and POLOS had a convertible ownership interest in, the Club, which featured scantily clad and sometimes topless women dancers and offered private stalls for what were supposed to be limited-contact dances between dancers and their patrons. As POLOS and GLOVER knew, many of the dancers—who at times engaged in sexual acts with club patrons and staff—were undocumented immigrants not lawfully in the United States. GLOVER and POLOS both worked regular shifts at the Club in the months prior to and following their submission of the national security forms. They also hired, fired, and paid bartenders, dancers, and bouncers; advertised the Club in local periodicals; manned a back office available only to employees; remotely monitored video camera feed from the Club when not present; and generally tended to various Club-related matters. GLOVER and POLOS at times attended to Club matters during DEA work hours. Had POLOS and GLOVER truthfully disclosed their employment at the Club, their ownership and involvement in the affairs of the Club would have been investigated as part of their background checks, and the security clearances that they were required to maintain as federal law enforcement employees likely would have been denied. * * * POLOS, 51, of West Nyack, New York, and GLOVER, 45, of Lyndhurst, New Jersey, are each charged with one count of making false statements, which carries a maximum sentence of five years in prison. The maximum potential sentences in this case are prescribed by Congress and are provided here for informational purposes only, as any sentencing of the defendants will be determined by a judge. Mr. Bharara praised the investigative work of the FBI and DOJ-OIG. He also thanked the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation Division for its assistance. This case is being handled by the Office’s Public Corruption Unit. Assistant United States Attorneys Martin S. Bell and Andrew D. Goldstein are in charge of the prosecution. The charges contained in the Complaint are merely accusations and the defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. As the introductory phrase signifies, the entirety of the text of the Complaint and the description of the Complaint set forth herein constitute only allegations and every fact described should be treated as an allegation. Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption BALTIMORE, MD—Baltimore City Police officer Maurice Lamar Jeffers, age 47, of Savage, Maryland, has been charged by criminal complaint with theft of government property and stealing property as a federal officer. The criminal complaint was returned on Friday, May 8, 2015 and unsealed today. The criminal complaint was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and Commissioner Anthony W. Batts of the Baltimore Police Department. “The affidavit alleges that agents carried out an undercover operation and obtained a video recording of the defendant stealing cash while he believed he was executing a search warrant,” said U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein. “I want to thank the officers of the Baltimore Police Department and other agencies that assisted in this investigation.” According to the criminal complaint, Jeffers has been a sworn member of the Baltimore Police Department for the last 12 years, and is currently assigned as a Task Force Officer (TFO) to the U.S. Marshals’ Capital Area Regional Fugitive Task Force (CARFTF). As a TFO, Jeffers received special deputation to execute arrest and search warrants supporting the federal task force. Jeffers is responsible for locating and arresting offenders who have active local and federal arrest warrants and assisting in locating individuals for other jurisdictions and agencies upon request. The criminal complaint alleges that Jeffers stole approximately $3,000 on March 10, 2015, while Jeffers was on official business as a TFO for CARFTF. According to the affidavit filed in support of the criminal complaint, law enforcement conducted a covert operation in which agents rented a hotel room and set up surveillance equipment. Law enforcement also placed $3,200 in cash throughout the room—a portion of the money was placed in pain view and the rest was hidden. At the direction of law enforcement involved in this investigation, Jeffers and other members of CARFTF were told that the subject of a fictitious drug investigation was staying at the hotel room. Jeffers and CARFTF members were directed to secure the subject and the hotel room so that law enforcement could later execute a search warrant in the subject’s hotel room. According to the criminal complaint, Jeffers and another CARFTF member went to the hotel room to secure it. After Jeffers and the other TFO conducted a security check of the room the other TFO left to report that the room was secured. According to the criminal complaint, after the other TFO left, audio and video surveillance captured Jeffers searching the room and placing the money into his pants pockets. After Jeffers and the other CARFTF members left, law enforcement involved in this investigation conducted an inventory of the hotel room. As seen on the video, the prerecorded funds that had been planted in the hotel room—totaling $3,000—were gone. The stolen cash was not submitted as evidence, as it should have been if it had been lawfully seized. Jeffers faces a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison for each of the two theft counts. An initial appearance was held on May 8, 2015, in U.S. District Court in Baltimore. Jeffers was released under the supervision of U.S. Pretrial Services. A criminal complaint is not a finding of guilt. An individual charged by criminal complaint is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty at some later criminal proceedings. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the Baltimore FBI Public Corruption Task Force, which includes Agents and law enforcement officers from the IRS, the Baltimore Police Department, the Prince George’s County Police Department and the Baltimore FBI, for their work in the investigation, and recognized the U.S. Marshals Service for its assistance. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant United States Attorney David I. Sharfstein, who is prosecuting the case.
corruption ALEXANDRIA, VA—Tony Chandler, 68, of Severn, Maryland, and Marvin Hulsey, 52, of Stafford, Virginia, were indicted by a federal grand jury today on charges of conspiracy to commit wire fraud and wire fraud. Chandler also faces charges for conflicts of interest in the same indictment. According to the indictment, Chandler was employed by the U.S. Department of State with duties as a contracting officer’s representative in the Bureau of Overseas Buildings Operations. In that capacity, Chandler was responsible for oversight of the contractor that employed Hulsey as a program manager. Apart from his government employment, Chandler was an authorized distributor of nutritional supplements for a multi-level marketing company. From 2008 and continuing into 2010, Chandler earned a commission of sales for nutritional supplements that were sold to employees under Hulsey’s supervision. The employees were reimbursed by Hulsey’s employer for the cost of the nutritional supplements, after which Hulsey, through agreement with Chandler, caused fake invoices to be created and submitted to the U.S. Department of State. Knowing that the cost of nutritional supplements was not an allowable cost, Chandler approved many of the fake invoices in his official capacity, causing the U.S. Department of State to make fraudulent payments back to Hulsey’s employer. Chandler earned a commission from the multi-level marketing company for each sale of nutritional supplements. In a related case, on April 23, 2015, Gene Goodsell, the former U.S. Department of State supervisor of Chandler, pleaded guilty to a conflict of interest. According to documents filed in that case, Goodsell, who sponsored Chandler as an authorized distributor of nutritional supplements and earned commissions on each sale made by Chandler, became aware that Chandler sold nutritional supplements that were billed to the U.S. Department of State, and despite then knowing of his own personal financial interest in the contract, Goodsell continued to make official decisions concerning the contract. Dana J. Boente, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia; Steve A. Linick, Inspector General for the U.S. Department of State and Broadcasting Board of Governors; and Andrew G. McCabe, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office, made the announcement after the grand jury returned the indictment. This case was investigated by the U.S. Department of State, Office of Inspector General (DOS-OIG) and the FBI’s Washington Field Office. Substantial assistance was provided by the Criminal Analysis Branch of the DOS-OIG. Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Brian D. Harrison is prosecuting the case. Criminal indictments are only charges and not evidence of guilt. A defendant is presumed to be innocent until and unless proven guilty. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia.
corruption LAREDO, TX—Federal charges have been filed against Jesus Javier Garcia Jr., of Laredo, alleging he committed larceny by wrongfully collecting more than $40,000 in government pay for hours he did not work, announced United States Attorney Kenneth Magidson. The indictment was returned under seal May 12, 2015, and unsealed today upon his arrest. Garcia, 34, is expected to make his initial appearance before U.S. Magistrate Judge J. Scott Hacker tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. If convicted, he faces up to 10 years in prison and a possible $250,000 maximum fine. The investigation leading up to the indictment was conducted by Customs and Border Protection—Office of Internal Affairs and the FBI-Border Corruption Task Force. Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher S. Coker is prosecuting this case. An indictment is a formal accusation of criminal conduct, not evidence. A defendant is presumed innocent unless convicted through due process of law.
corruption The former Executive Director of the Virgin Islands Legislature was sentenced to five years in prison today, announced Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Ronald W. Sharpe of the District of the Virgin Islands. Louis “Lolo” Willis, 57, a resident of St. Thomas, was sentenced by U.S. District Court Judge Curtis V. Gomez of the District of the Virgin Islands. On Nov. 19, 2014, a jury in the Virgin Islands convicted Willis of four counts of federal programs bribery and extortion under color of official right. According to evidence presented at trial, Willis was the executive director of the Legislature between 2009 and 2012. His responsibilities included oversight of the major renovation of the Legislature building and awarding and entering into government contracts in connection with the project. Willis was also responsible for authorizing payments to the contractors for their work. Evidence presented at trial demonstrated that Willis accepted bribes, including $13,000 in cash and checks, from contractors in exchange for using his official position to secure more than $350,000 in work for the contractors and to ensure they received payment upon completion. This case was investigated by the FBI’s San Juan Field Office’s St. Thomas Resident Agency, the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation and the Office of the Virgin Islands Inspector General. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Justin Weitz of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section, Trial Attorney Traccee Plowell of the Criminal Division’s Office of Enforcement Operations, Trial Attorney Jennifer Blackwell of the Environment and Natural Resources Division’s Environmental Crimes Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Delia Smith of the District of the Virgin Islands.
corruption Paul Tanaka, 56, who was the second in command of the Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department (LASD) and William Thomas Carey, 56, who oversaw internal criminal investigations at the LASD, have been indicted on obstruction of justice charges for allegedly directing efforts to quash a federal investigation into corruption and civil rights violations by sheriff’s deputies at two downtown jail complexes. A federal grand jury yesterday returned a five-count indictment against Tanaka and Carey, who allegedly participated in a broad conspiracy to obstruct the investigation, a scheme that started when the sheriff’s department learned that an inmate at the Men’s Central Jail (MCJ) was an informant for the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI). Tanaka and Carey allegedly directed, oversaw and participated in a conspiracy that last year resulted in the conviction of seven other former LASD deputies. The obstruction of justice case was announced at a news conference this morning by Acting U.S. Attorney Stephanie Yonekura for the Central District of California and Assistant Director in Charge David Bowdich for the FBI’s Los Angeles Field Office. Tanaka and Carey are charged with conspiracy to obstruct justice and each is named in one count of obstruction of justice. Carey is charged with two counts of making false declarations for perjuring himself last year during the trials of co-conspirators. Tanaka was the undersheriff, the number two in the LASD, until 2013 and he ran an unsuccessful campaign for sheriff last year. Carey left LASD after reaching the rank of captain and heading the Internal Criminal Investigations Bureau. Tanaka and Carey surrendered themselves to the FBI early this morning and the two men are expected to be arraigned on the indictment this afternoon in U.S. District Court. According to the indictment, the two defendants were well aware of “problem deputies” at the jails, “allegations of rampant abuse of inmates” and “insufficient internal investigations” into deputy misconduct. But against this backdrop, Tanaka allegedly told deputies assigned to the jails to work in a “gray area” and that he thought that the LASD Internal Affairs Bureau should be reduced from 45 investigators to just one. The scheme to thwart the federal investigation allegedly started when deputies in August 2011 recovered a mobile phone from an inmate in MCJ, linked the phone to the FBI and determined that the inmate was an informant for the FBI who was cooperating in a federal corruption civil rights investigation. The phone was given to the inmate by a corrupt deputy, who subsequently pleaded guilty to federal bribery charges. Alarmed by the federal investigation, members of the conspiracy, guided by Tanaka and Carey, took affirmative steps to hide the cooperator from the FBI and the U.S. Marshals Service, which was attempting to bring the inmate to testify before a federal grand jury in response to an order issued by a federal judge. The indictment alleges that as part of the conspiracy, the deputies altered records to make it appear that the cooperator had been released. They then re-booked the inmate under a different name, moved him to secure locations, prohibited FBI access to the informant and then told the cooperator that he had been abandoned by the FBI. Over the course of several weeks, members of the conspiracy allegedly attempted to obtain an order from a Los Angeles Superior Court judge that would have compelled the FBI to turn over information about its investigation to LASD. After the judge refused to issue such an order because he had no jurisdiction over the federal law enforcement agency and even though it was clear that the FBI was properly acting in the course of a lawful investigation, Tanaka and Carey met to discuss having two sergeants approach the lead FBI case agent. Soon thereafter, the sergeants confronted the agent at her residence in an attempt to intimidate her. The sergeants threatened the agent with arrest and later reiterated this threat to her supervisor, stating that the agent’s arrest was imminent. “As the allegations demonstrate, Tanaka had a large role in institutionalizing certain illegal behavior within the sheriff’s department,” said Acting U.S. Attorney Yonekura. “This case also illustrates how leaders who foster and then try to hide a corrupt culture, will be held accountable, just like their subordinates.” The indictment also alleges that Tanaka and Carey oversaw co-conspirators who told fellow deputies not to cooperate in the federal investigation. Members of the conspiracy allegedly engaged in witness tampering by telling fellow deputies that the FBI would lie, threaten, manipulate and blackmail them to obtain information about the sheriff’s department. “The allegations in the indictment include cover-ups, diversionary tactics, retribution and a culture generally reserved for Hollywood scripts,” said Assistant Director in Charge Bowdich. “The public held the defendants to the highest standard, but, instead, they spent their time and energy setting a tone which minimized the value of their oath and dishonored the badge they wore.” An indictment contains allegations that a defendant has committed a crime. Every defendant is presumed to be innocent until and unless proven guilty in court. The conspiracy count carries a statutory maximum sentence of five years in federal prison and the obstruction of justice charges carry a maximum penalty of ten years. The two false declaration counts against Carey each carry a potential penalty of five years. As a result of this investigation, a total of 21 defendants who held various ranks in the LASD have been charged, including the deputy who took the bribe to smuggle the phone and seven co-conspirators in the scheme to obstruct justice (see, for example: http://www.justice.gov/usao/cac/Pressroom/2014/161.html). The investigation into corruption, civil rights abuses and obstruction of justice related to the Los Angeles County jails is being conducted by the FBI.
corruption A second Miami-Dade Police Department officer was arrested for participating in a fraud scheme arising out of the operation of a series of credit repair businesses. Wifredo A. Ferrer, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office, and J.D. Patterson, Director, Miami-Dade Police Department (MDPD), made the announcement. Miami-Dade Police Officer George Price, 42, and Fatima Ruiz, a/k/a “Fatima Cabana,” 45, both of Miami-Dade, made their initial appearances on a superseding indictment yesterday before Magistrate Judge Andrea M. Simonton. Price and Ruiz are both charged by indictment with conspiracy to commit wire fraud, wire fraud, conspiracy to commit mail fraud, and mail fraud, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1341, 1343, and 1349, offenses punishable by up to twenty years in prison. A third defendant named in the indictment, Miami-Dade Police Officer Rafael Duran, was previously arrested on April 2, 2015. According to allegations contained in the superseding indictment, Price, Ruiz, and Duran participated in a scheme to provide false police reports to individuals operating credit repair businesses. A co-conspirator would provide Price with identifying information of credit business customers. Price would then create false police reports, using the customers’ identifying information. The police reports would falsely represent that the customers had reported to the Miami-Dade Police Department facts consistent with having been victims of identity theft. Price would cause the false police reports to become official records of the Miami-Dade Police Department. A member of the conspiracy would cause the false police reports created by Price to be transmitted to credit reporting agencies in order to induce the removal of negative items from the credit histories of the alleged victims identified in the false police reports. Price created the false police reports in order to promote the success of the credit businesses and in return would receive payment from his co-conspirators. The superseding indictment further alleges that while working at the credit businesses, Ruiz would provide funds to a co-conspirator who acted as an intermediary between Price and the companies. The intermediary in turn would pay Price for his participation in the scheme. According to the superseding indictment, Ruiz would also allegedly transmit to the credit reporting agencies letters claiming that customers of the credit businesses had been victims of identity theft. Ruiz would include false police reports to support the claims made in these letters. The superseding indictment also alleges that Ruiz conducted a similar scheme while operating her own separate credit repair business. According the superseding indictment, Ruiz would try to repair customer credit by sending letters to the credit reporting agencies claiming that her customers had been victims of identity theft. Ruiz would include false police reports created by Price along with the letters. U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer stated, “This indictment demonstrates that individuals who facilitate the sale of false police reports will be prosecuted accordingly because their fraudulent conduct undermines the public’s trust in the integrity of our law enforcement community.” “Law enforcement officers are entrusted with a great deal of responsibility and authority and therefore must be held to a high standard,” said George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Miami. “Unfortunately, the actions of a very few corrupt officers undercuts the public’s trust and they must be rooted out. The FBI’s Miami Area Corruption Task Force was assembled and designed to do just that.” “The Miami-Dade Police Department is committed to upholding the community’s trust. Integrity is the hallmark of the Department, and we will continue to work in collaboration with our law enforcement partners to ensure that those who violate that trust are held accountable,” said MDPD Director J.D. Patterson. Mr. Ferrer thanked the FBI Miami Area Corruption Task Force and MDPD Professional Compliance Bureau. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael Davis. An indictment is only an accusation and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Southern District of Florida at www.flsd.uscourts.gov or on http://pacer.flsd.uscourts.gov.
corruption U.S. Attorney Kenneth A. Polite announced that IRA THOMAS, 56, of New Orleans and former member of the Orleans Parish School Board (“OPSB”), pled guilty today to charges of conspiracy to commit bribery and honest services wire fraud. THOMAS admitted that beginning in September 2013 and continuing until January 2015, he and others participated in a conspiracy to commit bribery and honest services wire fraud. THOMAS admitted that, in his role as an Orleans Parish School Board Member, he engaged in a scheme to defraud Orleans Parish and its citizens of his honest services through bribery and a kickback scheme, whereby THOMAS used his public office and official capacity to provide favorable treatment, including attempting to facilitate the awarding of a contract, that was designed to benefit the business and financial interest of an individual who provided him with a bribe and kickback in the form of cash payment disguised as a campaign contribution. According to court documents, in September 2013 a cooperating witness (“CW”) was approached by an OPSB employee, who offered the CW a janitorial services contract that would soon be up for bid by the OPSB in exchange for a monetary payoff. During the fall of 2013, the CW, THOMAS, the OPSB employee, and at times another private citizen, met to discuss this contract. These conversations were recorded by the CW with the assistance of the FBI. Ultimately, it was decided that the CW would pay $5,000 to THOMAS in the form of a “campaign contribution” in exchange for THOMAS’ and the OPSB employee’s assistance regarding the janitorial services contract. In December 2013, the CW delivered $5,000 in cash to the private citizen acting as a conduit for THOMAS, which was video recorded. This money was then delivered to THOMAS. During the fall of 2014, THOMAS and the OPSB employee discussed over recorded telephone conversations how to alter the bid process so that the CW would be given an improper advantage in bidding for the janitorial services contract, which was valued over $5,000. THOMAS faces statutory penalties of up to five years in prison, a $250,000 fine and three years of supervised release. U.S. District Judge Susie Morgan set sentencing on August 12, 2015. U.S. Attorney Polite praised the work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in investigating this matter and thanked the Metropolitan Crime Commission for their assistance. Assistant U.S. Attorney Sean Toomey is in charge of the prosecution.
corruption Jerry Sutherland, 28, of Miami-Dade County, Florida, formerly an officer with the City of Miami Police Department, was sentenced yesterday to 24 months in prison, followed by one year of supervised release, including 150 hours of community service, following a guilty plea to two counts of extortion. Sutherland was also ordered to pay a $2,000 fine and forfeit $3,400 in illegal proceeds. Wifredo A. Ferrer, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, FBI, Miami Field Office, and Rodolfo Llanes, Chief, City of Miami Police Department (MPD), made the announcement. On March 2, 2015, Sutherland admitted to the following facts in support of his plea of guilty: In early 2014, Sutherland, who, at the time, was an officer with MPD, managed a football team in his spare time. Sutherland requested that a vendor paint the football team’s helmets free of charge. Subsequently, Sutherland began to demand additional services from the vendor without payment. When the vendor balked at these demands, Sutherland, who erroneously believed that the vendor was involved in an illegal gambling operation that was located adjacent to the vendor’s business in Miami-Dade County, intimated that he would shut down the gambling operation if his demands were not met. Sutherland represented to the vendor that he would provide the vendor with information about impending surveillance and other operations by MPD in the area of the gambling operation so that the vendor could pass on that information to the owners and operators of the gambling operation. An investigation of Sutherland ensued in which several recordings were made of the defendant receiving 10 bribe payments, many which he received while he was in uniform. Of these payments, 6 were made to Sutherland in exchange for his promise to provide protection for a gambling operation located in Miami-Dade County, that communicated the bets placed there to a gambling establishment in Las Vegas, Nevada; two were made to Sutherland in exchange for his promise to arrange for the dismissal of a criminal court case against an employee of the illegal gambling operation; one was made to Sutherland in exchange for his agreement to increase the visibility of police around a rival gambling location in order to discourage its customers from patronizing that rival location; and the remaining payment was for Sutherland’s promise to provide the vendor with a “case card” with a fictitious case number and officer’s name. Sutherland had been told that the fictitious case card would be used to falsely demonstrate that the gambling operation had been robbed so that the workers could keep for themselves the gambling proceeds that had been made that day. Pursuant to Sutherland’s demands, he received bribe payments which totaled $3,400. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI Miami Area Corruption Task Force and the City of Miami Police Department Internal Affairs Section. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Harry C. Wallace, Jr. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Southern District of Florida at www.flsd.uscourts.gov or on http://pacer.flsd.uscourts.gov.
corruption GAINESVILLE, GA—David M. Treadwell and Austin Herring have pleaded guilty in separate cases to criminal charges arising from corrupt actions they took when they were employed by the Hall County Sheriff’s Office. Treadwell pleaded guilty to accepting a bribe to tip off a person he believed was a drug dealer, if the person came under investigation by Hall County law enforcement. Herring pleaded guilty to attempting to possess cocaine with intent to distribute. “Both of these defendants breached the trust of the people of Hall County by taking actions that—had they occurred outside the context of an undercover investigation—could have endangered others or permitted other crimes to occur,” said Acting U.S. Attorney John A. Horn. “Each defendant has now forfeited his career in law enforcement, and could face prison as a result of his corrupt actions.” “Ethics and integrity is paramount for those working within law enforcement due to the many temptations that can arise and lead to an officer violating their oath of office as well as the law,” said J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office. “These guilty pleas represent two cases where two promising law enforcement officers gave in to those temptations and now face serious consequences for their criminal actions.” “Few crimes are as reprehensible as those committed by officers who violate the very laws they are sworn to uphold,” said Hall County Sheriff Gerald Couch. “The actions of David Treadwell and Austin Herring undermines the efforts of all law enforcement that honorably perform their duties.” According to Acting United States Attorney Horn, the charges, and other information presented in court: In late 2014, while Treadwell was employed as a deputy sheriff with the Hall County Sheriff’s Office, he accepted $200 or $300 on five occasions from a person he believed was a drug dealer. In exchange for the money, Treadwell agreed to alert the drug dealer if Treadwell learned that the drug dealer was under investigation in Hall County. In February 2015, while Herring was employed as a jailer with the Hall County Sheriff’s Office, he was paid $500 on two occasions to take a package he was told contained cocaine to an inmate inside the jail. On each occasion Herring took the package to the inmate who was cooperating with the investigation. The inmate then turned the package over to investigators. Herring did not open or tamper with either package, but on each occasion he was specifically told by the person who gave it to him that the package contained cocaine from Mexico. In actuality, neither package contained a controlled substance. David M. Treadwell, 33, of Gainesville, Georgia, and Austin Herring, 19, of Murrayville, Georgia, have both been fired by the Hall County Sheriff’s Office. Both cases are being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation with assistance from the North Georgia Major Offenders Task Force which includes deputy sheriffs from the Hall County Sheriff’s Office. Assistant United States Attorney William L. McKinnon, Jr. is prosecuting both cases.
corruption MCALLEN, TX—A federal grand jury has returned a two-count indictment against a Rio Grande City Police Department investigator and a second defendant in a conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute cocaine, announced U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson. The investigator, Noel Pena, 29, of Rio Grande City, and Hector Salinas-Hinojosa, 21, of Roma, are charged with conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute as well as possession with intent to distribute cocaine. The indictment is the result of an investigation that began last year and resulted in a sting operation that occurred last month. Salinas-Hinojosa was arrested April 17, 2015, upon the filing of a criminal complaint. Pena was taken into custody the following morning. The criminal complaint alleged Pena and Salinas-Hinojosa conspired to provide a ‘fake’ police report to an undercover officer who was acting as a cocaine trafficker. The undercover “cocaine trafficker” claimed to need assistance in stealing the majority of a 10-kilogram cocaine load he was holding for the drug cartels. On April 9, 2015, Salinas-Hinojosa and Pena met with the undercover officer and agreed to provide the ‘fake’ police report to make it appear that 10 kilograms of cocaine had been seized by law enforcement, according to the charges. In exchange they were allegedly supposed to be paid $10,000. The complaint alleged that at the time of the meeting, the undercover officer provided $5,000 as a down payment for the report. The scheme alleged in the complaint involved Pena, as an investigator assigned to the Starr County High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area Task Force, being tipped off to the location of the cocaine. He would then stage a law enforcement operation. On April 11, 2015, two kilograms of cocaine was left at a stash house location in Garceno. After being ‘tipped’ off the location, Pena allegedly proceeded to the residence and ‘found’ the cocaine and then obtained a search warrant to seize it. Subsequently, on April 17, 2015, Salinas-Hinojosa provided the ‘fake report’ to the undercover officer and was paid the remaining $5,000. All three counts carry a minimum of 10 years and up to life in federal prison as possible punishment, as well as a possible $10 million fine. The charges are the result of investigation conducted by Homeland Security Investigations, Drug Enforcement Administration, Texas Department of Public Safety and FBI with assistance from the Texas Rangers and the Starr County District Attorney’s Office. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Juan F. Alanis and Ted Imperato are prosecuting the case. An indictment is a formal accusation of criminal conduct, not evidence. A defendant is presumed innocent unless convicted through due process of law.
corruption Profits Over Safety Egg Company’s Fraudulent Practices Put Public at Risk 05/08/15 The 81-year-old owner of an Iowa egg production company and his son, a top executive in the business, are going to prison for bribing a federal food inspector and distributing eggs that contained Salmonella bacteria, which caused hundreds of consumers to become sick. A federal judge in Iowa last month ordered the Quality Egg company to pay a $6.79 million fine and sentenced company owner Austin “Jack” DeCoster, and his son, Peter DeCoster, who was Quality Egg’s chief operating officer, to serve time in prison. During the spring and summer of 2010, adulterated eggs produced and distributed by Quality Egg were linked to nearly 2,000 consumer illnesses in a nationwide outbreak of salmonellosis that led to the recall of millions of eggs produced by the defendants. “This was a classic case of putting profits over public safety,” said Special Agent Grant Permenter, who helped investigate the case from the FBI’s Omaha Division. Quality Egg pled guilty to bribing an inspector of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to release eggs that had been retained for quality issues. The eggs had been “red tagged” for failing to meet minimum USDA quality grade standards. The company also pled guilty to introducing misbranded eggs into interstate commerce with the intent to defraud. From approximately 2006 until 2010, Quality Egg employees affixed labels to egg shipments that indicated false expiration dates with the intent to mislead state regulators and retail egg customers regarding the true age of the eggs. In the government’s sentencing memorandum prepared for the court, it was noted that Quality Egg personnel had for years disregarded food safety standards and misled customers about the company’s food safety practices. “As with a lot of fraud cases,” Permenter said, “Quality Egg’s crimes were committed over and over for years, and, eventually, these illegal practices caught up with them.” But this case was not just about deception, he said. “People got sick. There was a serious public safety issue here. Quality Egg’s business practices put the public at risk—at times, substantial risk.” Permenter explained that the FBI assisted in the investigation led by the USDA’s Office of Inspector General and the Food and Drug Administration’s Office of Criminal Investigations. He added that the USDA inspector who received bribes from Quality Egg was in ill health and died before he could be charged. “The inspector was a federal employee. Had he lived,” Permenter said, “he would have been charged and, in all likelihood, would have gone to jail as well.” In June 2014, Quality Egg and Jack and Peter DeCoster pled guilty to bribery and other charges related to adulterated egg distribution. In the end, Permenter said, “it seems obvious that company profits outweighed other concerns.” By being able to circumvent the inspection process through bribes and not having to remove the tainted eggs from its inventory, the company saved a significant amount of money. “When you start bending your ethical and moral fibers because there are dollar signs in front of you,” he said, “a lot of bad things are likely to happen.” Resources: - Press release
corruption ATLANTA—Raytosha Elliott, a former contracting official with the Georgia National Guard, has pleaded guilty to awarding contracts in exchange for illegal kickbacks. Elliott used her position to award numerous contracts under $5,000 to vendor companies created by her friends and associates. “Ms. Elliott abused her position with the Georgia National Guard by awarding no-bid contracts to her friends in exchange for illegal kickbacks,” said Acting U.S. Attorney John Horn. “She and one friend alone pocketed nearly $75,000 in funds that were intended to maintain facilities supporting those who serve this country.” “This guilty plea should send a message that there is a price to pay for such a betrayal of trust as seen in this case. This case also represents the FBI’s commitment to those investigations that protect the integrity of government funds and assets,” said J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office. “The Government relies on the honesty and integrity of its officials engaged in contracting and procurement,” stated John F. Khin, Special Agent in Charge, Southeast Field Office, Defense Criminal Investigative Service. “This guilty plea by a corrupt National Guard employee who misused her position was the result of DCIS’ joint efforts with our Federal and State law enforcement partners to investigate corruption within the contracting process.” “IRS Criminal Investigation will continue to provide its investigative resources and expertise in exposing fraud schemes like the one Elliott orchestrated,” said Veronica F. Hyman-Pillot, Special Agent in Charge, IRS Criminal Investigation. “We hope this case serves as a deterrent to those who desire to pilfer the State and Federal governments’ coffers. We also believe this case exemplifies how multiple agencies can work together to achieve a common goal: to serve the public who depends on us to defend the integrity of government programs,” said Deb Wallace, State Inspector General, Georgia Office of the Inspector General. According to Acting U.S. Attorney Horn, the charges and other information presented in court: From May 2007 through April 2012, Elliott worked for the Georgia Department of Defense, the state agency charged with coordinating and supervising all agencies and functions of the Georgia National Guard. Elliott worked as an Engineering Operations Manager out of the Clay National Guard Center, located at Dobbins Air Reserve Base, in Marietta, Georgia. In that position, Elliott worked with engineering firms to develop bid-ready construction projects, prepared bid documents, and oversaw no-bid purchase orders. Under the rules governing the contracting process that Elliott oversaw, projects that cost less than $5,000 did not need to go through a competitive bidding process, allowing Elliott to award the contracts. She certified that the work had been completed for those projects, and facilitated payment to the vendors who allegedly completed such projects. In that position, Elliott awarded numerous contracts under $5,000 to vendor companies created by her friends and associates, including co-defendant Lakeysha Ellis. In return, Ellis paid Elliott kickbacks, equal to 50% of the value of the contracts, for steering the contracts to Ellis’ vendor company, Total Source Solution, LLC. Elliott falsely certified that work had been completed when, in fact, it had not. Elliott awarded Total Source Solution 17 contracts with a total value of approximately $75,000. Those contracts were for a variety of services supposedly to be performed by Total Source Solution, including electrical work, landscaping, and HVAC work. But the work was never done. Instead, the defendants split the money awarded under these contracts and spent it on personal items, including travel, meals, merchandise, and even liposuction treatment for Ellis. As part of the scheme, Elliott owned a company named Tech Group Investments, LLC. Ellis took money she had obtained from the Georgia National Guard contracts, and paid kickbacks to Elliott through this company. Elliott and Ellis conducted a similar fraud scheme from January 2009, through May 2011, when Ellis was an accountant at Baumueller-Nuermont Corporation, an industrial equipment company with offices in Atlanta. Her job responsibilities included payroll and paying vendors. While employed as Baumueller-Nuermont’s accountant, Ellis fraudulently funneled money to the defendants’ two sham companies, Total Source Solution and Tech Group Investments. Ellis wrote corporate checks to Total Source Solution, signed her name on the checks, and forged the signature of the Vice President on the checks, to ensure that the checks could be negotiated. Ellis recorded these payments in the check registry to reflect falsely that the checks had been issued to true vendors (such as American Express) when in fact they went to Ellis’ company. As part of the scheme, Ellis also falsified employee records in the corporation’s payroll system to disguise payments to the defendants’ two companies. Ellis created at least two phantom employees by altering the names of real employees (by switching their first and last names) and slightly changing their Social Security numbers. She then caused the payroll system to make fraudulent salary payments to Total Source Solution and Tech Group Investments for these new, non-existent employees. Baumueller-Nuermont lost about $85,000 from this scheme. Elliott, 35, of Atlanta, Georgia, pleaded guilty to two counts of conspiracy today. As part of her plea agreement, Elliott has also agreed to pay restitution to WebBank based on a fraudulent loan application she submitted to the bank in September 2013. In that application, Elliott falsely inflated Tech Group Investments’ sales and gross receipts, and provided a fraudulent federal tax return in support of those figures, to obtain the loan. On March 27, 2014, Ellis, 37, of Atlanta, Georgia, pleaded guilty to two counts of conspiring with Elliott, to commit fraud against the Georgia National Guard and Baumueller-Nuermont. The indictment also charges a third defendant, Angela Thicklin (f/k/a Angela Stanback Kinlaw), 44, of Atlanta, Georgia, of conspiring with Elliott and bribing a public official. In her position at the Georgia National Guard, Elliott awarded contracts to 3M Construction LLC, which was a company owned by Thicklin. The case against Thicklin is pending trial. Sentencing for Elliott is scheduled for August 13, 2015, at 10:30 a.m., before United States District Judge Amy Totenberg. Sentencing for Ellis has not yet been scheduled. This case is being investigated by Special Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; the Georgia Bureau of Investigation; the U.S. Department of Defense, Office of Inspector General, Defense Criminal Investigative Service; Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation; the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command; and Deputy Inspectors General of the State of Georgia Office of the Inspector General. Assistant United States Attorney Stephen H. McClain is prosecuting the case.
corruption WASHINGTON—Former New York State Assembly Member William Scarborough, 69, of Queens, New York, has agreed to plead guilty on federal and state charges stemming from public corruption investigations, announced U.S. Attorney Richard S. Hartunian of the Northern District of New York, Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman of the State of New York, State Comptroller Thomas P. DiNapoli of New York and Special Agent in Charge Andrew W. Vale of the FBI’s Albany Division. Scarborough pleaded guilty this morning to federal charges and is scheduled to plead guilty to state charges at 12:30 p.m. in Albany, New York, County Court. Appearing in federal court before Senior U.S. District Judge Thomas J. McAvoy of the Northern District of New York, Scarborough pleaded guilty to wire fraud and theft concerning a program receiving federal funds. Scarborough is scheduled to be sentenced on Monday, Sept. 14, 2015, at 11:30 a.m., in Albany. He faces up to 20 years in prison on the wire fraud count, 10 years in prison on the count charging theft concerning a program receiving federal funds and fines of up to $250,000 on each count. As part of the plea agreement, Scarborough also agreed to resign his position as a member of the New York State Assembly, pay $54,355 in restitution to the State of New York and forfeit that amount to the United States. This afternoon, Scarborough will appear before Judge Stephen W. Herrick of the Albany County Court to plead guilty to a public corruption charge related to the misuse of over $40,000 from his Friends of Bill Scarborough campaign account. As part of the plea agreement, Scarborough will plead guilty to grand larceny in the fourth degree and is expected to be sentenced to one year of jail time, will resign his position in the State Assembly and will donate all funds remaining in his campaign account to charity. The federal charges and guilty plea arose from an investigation into travel voucher fraud. As a New York State Assemblymember, Scarborough was entitled to receive the following types of payments when he traveled to Albany for legislative business: an allowance for overnight stays in Albany (full per diem), which varied from $160 to $171 per day, an allowance for travel not requiring an overnight stay in Albany (partial per diem), which varied from $49 to $61 per day and reimbursement for mileage actually incurred for travel between his home and Albany. To receive those payments, Scarborough was required to submit travel vouchers to the New York State Assembly Finance Department certifying his dates of travel to and from Albany, the number of miles he traveled to and from Albany, the purpose of his travel, the days he was in Albany and his eligibility for payment for either full per diem or partial per diem on each of those days. He also had to certify that the claimed amount was “just, true and correct.” As part of his federal plea, Scarborough admitted that from January 2009 through December 2012 he submitted 174 fraudulent New York State Assembly travel vouchers to the assembly’s Finance Department causing the State of New York to pay him $54,355 that he was not entitled to receive. In the fraudulent vouchers, Scarborough falsely certified that he had been in Albany for legislative business on specific days when he had not been in Albany at all, had been in Albany, for less time than he claimed on a voucher, or had not stayed overnight. The state charges arose from an ongoing effort between Schneiderman and DiNapoli known as “Operation Integrity” and conducted with the FBI’s Public Corruption Task Force. In his state plea agreement, Scarborough will admit that between January 2007 and March 2014, he stole from the Friends of Bill Scarborough campaign committee by making over $38,000 in unauthorized cash withdrawals and transfers from his campaign account for his own personal use and taking checks totaling $3,450 which were intended as donations to the Friends of Bill Scarborough campaign and instead depositing them directly into his personal bank. In furtherance of this scheme, Scarborough will admit that, over the seven year period, he caused his campaign committee to file 21 false reports to the New York State Board of Elections that failed to reflect these larcenies. “My office is committed to rooting out corruption in the state legislature, without regard to party, position, power or popularity,” said U.S. Attorney Hartunian. “There is no delight in the downfall of a duly elected representative, but Mr. Scarborough chose personal gain over the public trust. Complaints of financial distress—something many people experience—provide a poor excuse for Mr. Scarborough’s misconduct, which involved a four year scheme to defraud by abusing the New York State Assembly’s travel voucher system. He falsely obtained $54,355, and now must face the consequences of his actions. I commend the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Office of New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman and the Office of New York State Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli for their outstanding work and collaborative efforts here. This case is the result of interagency cooperation at its best.” “Today Assemblymember Scarborough pleaded guilty to crimes that betrayed his constituents and the taxpayers of the State of New York—crimes that will send him to jail under this plea agreement,” said Attorney General Schneiderman. “While he will pay the price for his individual crimes, we need to channel public outrage at the ongoing corruption scandals into a movement for comprehensive reform. We have done this before in New York, and we can do it again.” The Attorney General’s Office thanked the FBI and the U.S. Attorney’s Office of the Northern District of New York for their collaboration on this case. “Public service means just that: serving the public,” said Comptroller DiNapoli. “Mr. Scarborough abused his public office for personal gain and now faces the consequences of his actions. I commend Attorney General Schneiderman, U.S. Attorney Hartunian and the Federal Bureau of Investigation for their commitment and for our continued partnership in rooting out corruption and protecting public funds.” “American taxpayers deserve honesty from public officials,” said Special Agent in Charge Vale. “Those involved in acts of corruption and blatant greed will be held accountable for their actions and we will continue to pursue those like Mr. Scarborough who sell their integrity at the public’s expense.” The federal case was investigated by the FBI’s Albany Division and is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeffrey C. Coffman of the Northern District of New York. Prosecuting the state case is Assistant Attorney General Christopher Baynes of the Attorney General’s Public Integrity Bureau. The state’s investigation was handled by Investigator Mark Spencer and Deputy Bureau Chief Antoine Karam of the Investigation Bureau. Forensic Auditor Jason Blair and Legal Analyst Sara Pogorzelski provided additional assistance. The New York State Comptroller’s Division of Investigations conducted the investigation for Comptroller DiNapoli’s Office.
corruption SPRINGFIELD, MO—Tammy Dickinson, United States Attorney for the Western District of Missouri, announced that a reserve deputy sheriff for Christian County, Mo., was indicted by a federal grand jury today on additional charges related to a $14.5 million investment fraud scheme. Marty Layne Brickey, 44, of Republic, Mo., was charged in a 30-count superseding indictment returned by a federal grand jury in Springfield, Mo. Today’s superseding indictment replaces an indictment that was returned on June 10, 2014, and adds additional charges. Brickey has been commissioned as a reserve deputy sheriff in Christian County, Mo., since 2012. Including three counts of wire fraud and six counts of money laundering contained in the original indictment, today’s indictment charges Brickey with a total of 10 counts of wire fraud, 13 counts of money laundering and seven counts of failure to pay employment taxes. According to the indictment, Brickey owned and operated several companies that marketed, promoted and managed software development. Interzone Entertainment, LLC, had offices located in Springfield, Chicago, Ill., Perth, Australia, Belo Horizonte, Brazil, and in China before it ceased operations in February 2010. Big Collision Games, LLC, had offices in Texas and in Dublin, Ireland. MasterTitle Games, Inc., and Spectacle Games maintained offices in Austin, Texas. Brickey also owned Zoonik USA, Inc., and Studio Avenue, Inc. The federal indictment alleges that Brickey defrauded investors of more than $14.5 million in a scheme that operated from January 2008 to January 2014. Brickey allegedly told victim investors that their investment funds would be used to bring a video game to market and they would share in the profits. Brickey made false statements to potential investors regarding the amount of capital he had raised from other investors, the indictment says, and how close his companies were to bringing a product to market. Brickey allegedly told potential investors he was working with, or close to receiving investments from, various celebrities and important persons, including Shaquille O’Neal, Kanye West, Kim Kardashian, the Sheik of Abu Dhabi and various corporate entities. In reality, the indictment says, Brickey used a substantial amount of investor funds to pay his personal expenses unrelated to the development and marketing of any video game, and to repay prior investors who had demanded the return of their money. None of Brickey’s companies brought a video game to market, and the total revenue of Brickey’s companies during this time period was approximately $2,281. Brickey is charged with seven counts of failure to pay employment tax (including federal income taxes, Medicare and Social Security taxes of employees) related to his role as president of Interzone from August 2006 to December 2011. Between April 2009 and June 2011, the indictment says, Brickey caused Interzone to make hundreds of thousands of dollars of expenditures for his personal benefit while, at the same time, failing to pay over to the IRS the payroll tax due from Interzone’s employees’ paychecks. Interzone allegedly failed to account for and pay over approximately $102,813 in payroll taxes during those seven quarters. Dickinson cautioned that the charges contained in this indictment are simply accusations, and not evidence of guilt. Evidence supporting the charges must be presented to a federal trial jury, whose duty is to determine guilt or innocence. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven M. Mohlhenrich. It was investigated by IRS-Criminal Investigation and the FBI.
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, announced that LYNWOOD PATRICK, JR., 39, of East Hartford, was arrested today on a federal criminal complaint charging him with wire fraud in connection with his submission of a fraudulent application for a personal mortgage modification. PATRICK was arrested this morning at his residence. He appeared before U.S. Magistrate Judge Donna F. Martinez in Hartford and was released on a $150,000 bond. According to the criminal complaint, PATRICK is employed as the Director of Investigations for the State of Connecticut Department of Social Services, Office of Quality Assurance. The complaint alleges that, from approximately November 2012 through May 2013, PATRICK applied for a mortgage modification under the Making Home Affordable program, a federal initiative designed to assist homeowners who have experienced a decline in income access secure loans at lower rates. When applying for mortgage relief through JP Morgan Chase, PATRICK fabricated State of Connecticut paystubs and lied about his assets in order qualify for the program. Specifically, PATRICK claimed total assets of $500 in one checking account to show that he had experienced a loss of income causing a hardship when, in fact, he had thousands of dollars spread out over multiple accounts at several institutions and his rate of pay had not diminished. In his capacity as the Director of Investigations, PATRICK is responsible for coordinating and conducting activities to prevent, detect and investigate fraud, waste, abuse and overpayments in the Connecticut Medicaid, Care4Kids, Supplemental Nutritional Assistance and Connecticut Energy Assistance Programs. PATRICK’s salary is partially paid for by the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, which is a federal agency within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The criminal complaint charges PATRICK with wire fraud, which carries a maximum term of imprisonment of 20 years. U.S. Attorney Daly stressed that a complaint is only a charge and is not evidence of guilt. Charges are only allegations, and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. This matter is being investigated by the Connecticut Public Corruption Task Force, which includes the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services—Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development—Office of Inspector General, Federal Bureau of Investigation, U.S. Postal Inspection Service and Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation Division. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher M. Mattei. Citizens are encouraged to report to corruption to the Connecticut Public Corruption Task Force by calling 1-800-CALL-FBI (1-800-225-5324).
corruption FRESNO, CA—Derik Carson Kumagai, 41, of Fresno, was sentenced today by United States District Judge Anthony W. Ishii to two years in prison for conspiring to commit bribery, United States Attorney Benjamin B. Wagner announced. Kumagai was ordered to self-surrender on June 12 at 2:00 p.m. to begin serving his sentence. In addition, co-defendant Saykham Somphoune, aka Oat, 41, also of Fresno, was sentenced to time served, which was 13 months in jail for his role in the bribery conspiracy. Both defendants were ordered to pay $13,962 in restitution. According to court documents, beginning in April 2012, federal law enforcement agents were investigating a group of individuals that included Somphoune and one of his associates, for suspected cultivation and distribution of marijuana. In October and November 2013, Somphoune had a series of meetings with his associate, some of which were attended by Kumagai. At the time, Kumagai was a Fresno Police Department detective in the Vice and Intelligence Unit. During these meetings, the associate was told that he was under federal investigation, but that in return for a bribe payment, Kumagai could close the investigation and arrange to have the associate designated as a confidential informant for the Fresno Police Department. On November 6, 2013, the associate paid Kumagai approximately $20,000 cash. A few hours later, the associate signed documents for the purported purpose of becoming a confidential informant for the Fresno Police Department. The defendants were arrested in March of 2014, and the associate never actually served as a confidential informant for the Fresno Police Department. “Former detective Kumagai violated the trust given to him as a law enforcement officer,” said U.S. Attorney Wagner. “He will now spend time in federal prison for his corrupt conduct. It is an important mission of the U.S. Attorney’s Office to prosecute law enforcement officers and other public officials who abuse their official authority for their own personal gain. We will continue to work closely with our law enforcement partners to investigate and prosecute these cases.” “Such criminal activity tarnishes the reputations of the men and women in law enforcement who are committed to upholding laws that keep citizens safe,” said Assistant Special Agent in Charge John Gliatta of the Sacramento field office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. “We and our law enforcement partners are committed to the identification and investigation of any such activity to ensure that those who corruptly abuse public trust are held accountable for their criminal activity.” “Former police officer Derik Kumagai participated in an elaborate bribery scheme in which he utilized his position as a law enforcement officer for personal gain. This type of behavior from a public servant is not only illegal, but also appalling,” stated DEA Acting Special Agent in Charge Bruce C. Balzano. “DEA will vigorously work to hold those accountable who abuse their position and violate the public trust.” “The defendant’s conduct was reprehensible and a dishonor to those who took an oath to uphold the law and protect citizens,” said IRS Criminal Investigation Special Agent in Charge José M. Martinez. “Mr. Kumagai used his position for personal gain, betraying the community he swore to protect. IRS-CI will continue to investigate public corruption to ensure everyone plays by the same rules—regardless of job or position.” This case was the product of an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Drug Enforcement Administration, and the Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation. Assistant United States Attorneys Grant B. Rabenn and Kevin P. Rooney prosecuted the case. This case was the product of the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF), a focused multi-agency, multi-jurisdictional task force investigating and prosecuting the most significant drug trafficking organizations throughout the United States by leveraging the combined expertise of federal, state and local law enforcement agencies.
corruption Preet Bharara, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, and Diego Rodriguez, Assistant Director-In-Charge of the New York Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (“FBI”), announced today that New York State Senate Majority Leader DEAN SKELOS and his son ADAM SKELOS were taken into custody this morning on charges that they extorted those with business before New York State to make payments to ADAM SKELOS, with the expectation that such payments would result in official action by DEAN SKELOS. The defendants were also charged with bribery and honest services fraud schemes. Among other things, DEAN SKELOS is accused of illegally obtaining a $20,000 payment for ADAM SKELOS from a large real estate developer dependent on DEAN SKELOS for tax breaks and a $10,000 monthly payment from an environmental technology company seeking government-funded contracts in New York State. DEAN SKELOS and ADAM SKELOS surrendered to the FBI in Manhattan, this morning, and are scheduled to appear before U.S. Magistrate Judge Henry B. Pitman in Manhattan federal court later today. U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said: “As the Complaint charges, in six counts, Dean Skelos unlawfully used his power and influence as Senate Majority Leader, repeatedly, to illegally enrich his son, Adam, and indirectly, himself. And, more specifically, the Complaint, in multiple places, alleges that Dean Skelos’s support for certain infrastructure projects and legislation was often based, not on what was good for his constituents or good for New York, but rather on what was good for his son’s bank account. By now, two things should be abundantly clear. First, public corruption is a deep-seated problem in New York State. It is a problem in both chambers; it is a problem on both sides of the aisle. And second, we are deadly serious about tackling that problem.” FBI Assistant Director-In-Charge Diego Rodriguez said: “The charges announced today describe the alleged criminal activity of Dean and Adam Skelos. In particular, the defendants are alleged to have conspired to take advantage of Dean Skelos’s powerful position within state government to influence and extort those with business before the state. When all was said and done, Dean Skelos is charged with having caused more than $200,000 to be paid to Adam Skelos in exchange for backdoor bribes. We hold our elected representatives to the highest standards, and will continue to root out corruption in all forms and at all levels of government: municipal, state, and federal.” According to the allegations contained in the Complaint unsealed today in Manhattan federal court: Since his re-election in 2010, DEAN SKELOS has served as Majority Leader or Co-Majority Leader of the New York State Senate, a position that gives him significant power over the operation of New York State government. DEAN SKELOS used this power to pressure companies with business before New York State to make payments to his son, ADAM SKELOS, who substantially depended on these companies for his income. DEAN SKELOS and ADAM SKELOS were able to secure these illegal payments through implicit and explicit representations that DEAN SKELOS would use his official position to benefit those making the payments, which DEAN SKELOS in fact did when it was necessary to ensure that the payments to ADAM SKELOS continued. DEAN SKELOS, as charged, obtained over $200,000 in payments to ADAM SKELOS through persistent and repeated pressure applied to a senior executive of a major real estate developer (“Developer-1”) who is cooperating with the Government and referred to in the Complaint as CW-1. In response to this pressure, CW-1 arranged for Developer-1 to pay $20,000 to ADAM SKELOS and further arranged for an environmental technology company (the “Environmental Technology Company” or “Company”) in which Developer-1’s founding family and CW-1 owned stakes to make $10,000 monthly payments to ADAM SKELOS. CW-1 arranged for these payments to ADAM SKELOS due to Developer-1’s substantial dependence on DEAN SKELOS for real estate tax abatements and other real estate legislation favorable to Developer-1, and based in part on a statement from DEAN SKELOS that he would punish those in the real estate industry who defied him. In return for the payments to ADAM SKELOS, and to ensure that they would continue, DEAN SKELOS took numerous official actions to benefit both Developer-1 and the Environmental Technology Company, including promoting State legislation beneficial to the companies. Dean Skelos’s Demands For Payments To Adam Skelos Beginning in approximately 2010, DEAN SKELOS met repeatedly with CW-1 and other representatives of Developer-1 to request that Developer-1 provide sales commissions to his son, ADAM SKELOS, claiming that ADAM SKELOS was suffering financially. DEAN SKELOS met repeatedly with CW-1 to request payments for his son, including during meetings where CW-1 and others from Developer-1 were lobbying DEAN SKELOS with respect to real estate legislation. CW-1 was concerned about Developer-1 making payments to ADAM SKELOS but did not want to ignore DEAN SKELOS’s repeated requests in light of his position as Senate Majority Leader and his importance in ensuring the passage of real estate legislation beneficial to Developer-1. Payments To Adam Skelos Arranged By CW-1 As charged, CW-1 responded to the requests from DEAN SKELOS by arranging for payments to ADAM SKELOS that would be difficult to trace to Developer-1. First, CW-1 caused a $20,000 check to be issued to ADAM SKELOS from a title insurance company dependent on Developer-1 for business, even though ADAM SKELOS did no work whatsoever in connection with the real estate transaction for which title insurance was being issued. CW-1 made this payment after ADAM SKELOS forwarded to his father, DEAN SKELOS, an e-mail that ADAM SKELOS had sent to CW-1 requesting a title insurance commission. After receiving the e-mail, DEAN SKELOS responded “Following up, be patient” during the same time period DEAN SKELOS was contacting CW-1 and a lobbyist working for Developer-1 to renew his request for payments to his son. In addition to the $20,000 payment CW-1 convinced the CEO of the Environmental Technology Company to hire ADAM SKELOS as a $4,000 per month “consultant” by telling the CEO that, through payments to ADAM SKELOS, DEAN SKELOS would be able to assist the Environmental Technology Company in winning government-funded contracts in New York State. For example, CW-1 e-mailed the CEO that “there is great potential for [ADAM SKELOS] to exploit his father’s contacts statewide.” Likewise, ADAM SKELOS arranged a conference call between DEAN SKELOS and a senior executive with the Environmental Technology Company who is cooperating with the Government (“CW-2”) to demonstrate that his father would assist the Company in return for payments. Later, after ADAM SKELOS had been hired by the Company on a $4,000 per month contract, CW-1 told the CEO on behalf of ADAM SKELOS and DEAN SKELOS that they would block Nassau County’s approval of a $12 million contract with the Environmental Technology Company unless payments to ADAM SKELOS were sharply increased. In addition, CW-1 e-mailed the CEO that ADAM SKELOS’s “dad called” and “I think they don’t think [the Nassau County contract is] worth pushing through” absent higher payments to ADAM SKELOS. The CEO then agreed to increase ADAM SKELOS’s payments to $10,000 per month, and CW-2 responded in an e-mail that the Environmental Technology Company was being “held hostage.” Official Actions By Dean Skelos As charged in the Complaint, DEAN SKELOS took official actions beneficial to Developer-1 in return for the $20,000 payment to ADAM SKELOS and Developer-1’s role in arranging for payments to ADAM SKELOS from the Environmental Technology Company. Among other things, DEAN SKELOS voted for real estate-related legislation lobbied for by Developer-1, including the renewal of tax abatement and rent regulation legislation crucial to the financial success of Developer-1 enacted in 2011, and an expansion of the tax abatement program in 2013. With respect to the Environmental Technology Company, DEAN SKELOS and ADAM SKELOS periodically communicated to the CEO and CW-2 directly and indirectly that DEAN SKELOS would use his official position to benefit the Company so as to induce the Company to continue making payments to ADAM SKELOS. And, when the Company at times became frustrated with the limited progress in obtaining and collecting on government-funded contracts, DEAN SKELOS took official action to benefit the Company, including the following actions described in the Complaint: DEAN SKELOS used his official position to assist the Environmental Technology Company in applying and obtaining approvals for a $12 million contract with Nassau County, including by consulting with CW-2 on the Environmental Technology Company’s proposal and making calls to Nassau County officials to expedite the contracting process. Through these actions, ADAM SKELOS’s monthly payment from the Company more than doubled from $4,000 to $10,000. DEAN SKELOS pressured Nassau County officials to make payments to the Environmental Technology Company, stating at one point that his son could lose his job if payments were not expedited. For example, DEAN SKELOS was intercepted over a Court-authorized wiretap in a call with the Nassau County Executive in which he asked for an explanation for the lack of payments, complaining on behalf of ADAM SKELOS that “somebody feels like they’re getting jerked around the last two years.” Nassau County officials were concerned that if they did not pay ADAM SKELOS then DEAN SKELOS would not be responsive to the County’s legislative needs. Indeed, when Nassau County was slow in making payments to the Company, ADAM SKELOS told CW-2 on an intercepted call that Nassau County was “burning bridges left and right” and that the “State is not going to do a fucking thing for the County” because “they haven’t helped us with what we needed.” DEAN SKELOS used his official position to promote hydrofracking wastewater treatment regulations which would essentially require the use of a product of the type marketed by the Environmental Technology Company, and that would result in additional commission payments to ADAM SKELOS. To this end, DEAN SKELOS met privately with ADAM SKELOS and CW-2 on the Company’s fracking proposals and directed a member of his Senate Staff to arrange a meeting with a New York State government official and employees of the Environmental Technology Company. When the Governor of New York announced in December 2014 that New York State would continue to ban fracking, DEAN SKELOS repeatedly reassured ADAM SKELOS that “we’re going to totally focus on the other thing now,” referring to other legislative action that could benefit the Company. DEAN SKELOS used his official position in an attempt to direct a portion of a $5.4 billion sum that the State had recovered in litigation with financial services companies (the “Settlement Funds”) in a way that would benefit water projects and contracts that were being pursued by the Environmental Technology Company. For example, when ADAM SKELOS expressed concern in an intercepted call that the Governor was “pushing to spend all that money on his own” in his budget proposal, DEAN SKELOS told his son “don’t worry” and referred him to the speech that a fellow Senator would give in response to the Governor, in which DEAN SKELOS had inserted language advocating for using the Settlement Funds for “sewer and water systems.” DEAN SKELOS also used his official position in an attempt to enact State “design-build” legislation that Nassau county officials had explained was necessary to fully implement the $12 million contract with the Environmental Technology Company. Nassau County officials provided Dean Skelos with proposed legislation which Dean Skelos stated he would support if backed by the Governor. In a recorded call, ADAM SKELOS told CW-2 that DEAN SKELOS was “going to be sure that gets done” and that the plan involved the Nassau County executive lobbying the Governor to “[k]ind of make [the Governor] think it’s his idea and you’re supporting his agenda.” ADAM SKELOS later told CW-2 and the CEO that while design-build legislation would not be enacted as part of the budget process, DEAN SKELOS would continue to pursue it in the legislative session continuing through June 2015. Caution Following the Arrest of the Assembly Speaker After the Speaker of the New York State Assembly was arrested on January 22, 2015 and media outlets reported shortly thereafter that DEAN SKELOS was under investigation, the defendants became more cautious in pursuit of the Company’s legislative goals. ADAM SKELOS, for example, obtained what he referred to as his “burner phone”—a common slang term to refer to a phone that is not traceable to the user—to use for speaking to CW-2 about DEAN SKELOS’s progress in obtaining legislative benefits for the Environmental Technology Company. DEAN SKELOS is also caused the cancellation of a meeting Adam Skelos had arranged in furtherance of the scheme, commenting in an intercepted phone call “right now we are in dangerous times Adam.” At the direction of the Government, CW-2 informed ADAM SKELOS in late March of this year that due to the limited progress on the Company’s legislative goals, the CEO of the Environmental Technology Company was considering terminating his $10,000 monthly payment. ADAM SKELOS then placed an intercepted call to DEAN SKELOS, telling his father he “lost something that I had . . . the water . . . the water thing.” In response, DEAN SKELOS told ADAM SKELOS that “we’ll try to get it back at some point.” DEAN SKELOS advised ADAM SKELOS not to “panic over this” and not to “burn bridges,” but rather to just tell the Environmental Technology Company that “hopefully we can get it all going again.” ADAM SKELOS then placed an intercepted call to the CEO of the Environmental Technology Company and stated he would draft a letter of separation “just in case I ever get questioned by anyone” but that “really nothing is going to change.” * * * DEAN SKELOS, 67, and ADAM SKELOS, 32, both of Rockville Centre, New York, are each charged with three counts of extortion under color of official right, two counts of soliciting bribes in connection with a federal program, and one count of conspiracy to commit honest services fraud. The extortion and honest services counts carry a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and the soliciting bribes counts carry a maximum of 10 years. The maximum potential sentences in this case are prescribed by Congress and are provided here for informational purposes only, as any sentencing of the defendants will be determined by a judge. U.S. Attorney Bharara praised the work of the FBI and the Criminal Investigators of the United States Attorney’s Office, who jointly conducted this investigation. This case is being prosecuted by the Office’s Public Corruption Unit. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Jason Masimore, Rahul Mukhi, Tatiana Martins, and Thomas McKay are in charge of the prosecution. The charges contained in the Complaint are merely accusations, and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. - Remarks as prepared for delivery by FBI New York ADIC Diego Rodriguez Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption The following remarks were prepared for delivery by FBI New York Assistant Director in Charge Diego Rodriguez concerning the arrests of New York State Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos and his son Adam. The charges announced today resulted from the investigation of an ongoing scheme allegedly orchestrated by Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos and his son Adam. The FBI’s investigation uncovered criminal activity that began at least as far back as 2010, when the defendants are alleged to have conspired to take advantage of Skelos’ powerful position within state government to influence and extort those with business before the state. As alleged, after promising to secure legislation in favor of a major real estate developer who was lobbying Skelos at the time, Skelos pressured the developer to arrange for his son, Adam, to be paid a commission for work he didn’t perform. The developer was further influenced allegedly to arrange for monthly payments to Adam Skelos through an environmental technology company seeking government-funded contracts in New York State. In exchange, Dean Skelos allegedly promised to take official actions that would benefit the developer and the environmental technology company. Such actions are alleged to include, but were not limited to: Promoting real estate legislation favorable to the developer Blocking legislation that would negatively affect the developer Seeking changes to the budget in order to secure state funds for projects benefiting the environmental technology company. At the same time, Adam Skelos, an unregistered lobbyist, allegedly petitioned his father and other officials to support laws from which he and others would profit. When all was said and done, Dean Skelos is charged with having caused more than $200,000 to be paid to Adam Skelos in exchange for backdoor bribes. The quality of our local infrastructure, government services, and social benefit programs is directly affected by public corruption—one of the FBI’s top criminal priorities. We hold our elected representatives to the highest standards and will continue to root out corruption in all forms and at all levels of government: municipal, state, and federal. Many thanks, as always, to our partners in this and so many investigations: U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara Chief of the Public Corruption Unit, Arlo Devlin-Brown and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Jason Masimore, Rahul Mukhi, Tatiana Martins, and Thomas McKay I would also like to thank and congratulate the investigative team that worked together to address corruption in New York. I extend my sincere congratulations to: John Barry and Robert Ryan, criminal investigators from the Southern District FBI Special Agents Paul Takla, Jennifer Kibler, and Shannon Fish and Supervisory Special Agent James Barnacle for their work on this important investigation. - Press release: New York State Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos and Son Arrested on Corruption Charges Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption INDIANAPOLIS—United States Attorney, Josh J. Minkler, announced today the sentencing of the former chief financial officer for Center Township in Indianapolis. Alan Mizen 59, Zionsville, was sentenced to 18 months’ imprisonment by U.S. District Judge Sarah Evans Barker after his conviction for theft of federal program funds. “The citizens of Marion County deserve better from their public officials,” said Minkler. “I hope this sends a loud and strong message to anyone who abuses the public trust in Indiana. The U.S. Attorney’s Office will you hold you strictly accountable.” Mizen served as the chief financial officer for Center Township. In June 2010, he set up an account with PNC Bank and deposited a check in the amount of $343,541.08 that was drawn from public funds. Mizen then used the computerized accounting system at the Center Township Trustee’s Office to create a false invoice indicating that he had written the check to the “Treasurer of State.” Mizen then transferred the funds to various personal accounts that he maintained. From these personal accounts, Mizen used over $200,000 towards the purchase of a residence in Zionsville, the purchase of a Toyota Tacoma pickup truck, the funding of his child’s college education, personal vacations, the purchase a diamond necklace and diamond ring for $8,900 during a trip to the Cayman Islands and made other consumer purchases. Mizen used embezzled taxpayer funds to finance these personal expenditures from June 10, 2010, through July 2012. Minkler stated that this case was the result of outstanding law enforcement work by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Indiana State Board of Accounts with the assistance of the Internal Revenue Service. All three agencies are partners in the U.S. Attorney=s Public Integrity Working Group, which was launched in April 2012, with the stated purpose of aggressively investigating allegations of public fraud, waste and abuse by public officials in Indiana. We are glad that the citizens of Center Township are getting the funds that were taken from them by Mr. Mizen,” said Indiana State Board of Accounts State Examiner, Paul Joyce. “We all have the right to expect honest representation from our elected and/or appointed officials at all levels of government. I hope that those few public servants that decide to violate this trust will see that we, in conjunction with our state and federal partners, are prosecuting these officials and realize that this is not acceptable and we will hold them accountable.” According to Senior Litigation Counsel Bradley A. Blackington, who prosecuted the case for the government, Mizen was ordered to pay $343,000 in restitution. This restitution will be paid in full from funds in the accounts maintained by Mizen that were frozen by the government as part of the investigation.
corruption NEWARK, NJ—A former top official of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and a former member of Gov. Christopher J. Christie’s senior staff have been charged with a scheme to misuse Port Authority resources to facilitate and conceal the causing of traffic problems in Fort Lee, New Jersey, to punish the borough’s mayor for not endorsing the Governor’s re-election. The charges were announced today by U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman, along with Inspector General Michael Nestor of the Port Authority, Office of Inspector General, and FBI Special Agent in Charge Richard M. Frankel, Newark Division.
corruption TRENTON, NJ—The former mayor of Manalapan, New Jersey, was sentenced today to 60 months in prison for defrauding an investment client of $250,000 and submitting a falsified loan application in order to purchase farmland in Monmouth County, New Jersey, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Andrew Lucas, 37, was previously convicted by a federal jury on all 11 counts of an indictment charging him with wire fraud, an illegal monetary transaction, loan application fraud, false statements to the IRS, aggravated identity theft, obstruction of a grand jury investigation and falsification of records in a federal investigation. Lucas was convicted following a two-week trial before U.S. District Judge Freda L. Wolfson, who imposed the sentence today in Trenton federal court. According to documents filed in this case and the evidence at trial: On Dec.15, 2009, Lucas submitted a loan application to a New Jersey bank requesting $525,000 to finance his purchase of the Burke Farm property in Manalapan. Lucas provided the bank with falsified versions of his 2007 and 2008 tax returns, as well as a falsified version of a 2007 tax return for a relative whose name was also on the loan application. Lucas also falsely reported that he had a total of $210,000 in cash. Lucas owned and operated Lucas Capital Advisors LLC (Lucas Capital), through which he served as an investment advisor and manager to multiple individuals. To obtain the $250,000 down payment for the property, Lucas approached Bobby Janowski, who was a client of Lucas Capital, to pitch an investment in an entity called VLM Investments LLC (VLM). On Feb. 15, 2010, Lucas presented a written note to Janowski, which stated that the $250,000 investment was to be secured by “…interest in the equipment, fixtures, inventory and accounts receivable” of VLM. However, Lucas failed to inform Janowski that at the time the note was signed, VLM did not exist. Lucas also failed to disclose to Janowski that Lucas intended to make personal use of the funds. It was not until three days later, on Feb. 18, 2010, that Lucas created VLM by registering it with the State of New Jersey and the IRS, using the name and Social Security number of Lucas’ out-of-state relative, Thomas Littlefield, without his knowledge or permission. On Feb. 22, 2010, Lucas authorized the wiring of $250,000 from Janowski’s Lucas Capital investment account to a VLM bank account that had Lucas as the only authorized signer. On March 1, 2010, Lucas withdrew this money in the form of a bank check, which he provided the next day to the closing attorney for the purchase of the Burke Farm property. Lucas also filed tax returns for VLM for tax years 2011 and 2012, both times listing Littlefield’s name and Social Security number without Littlefield’s knowledge or permission. Federal investigators served Lucas with subpoenas on Feb. 7, 2013, for the records of VLM and Lucas Capital Advisors. In response, Lucas provided federal authorities with a fabricated and back-dated letter purporting to be from Littlefield concerning a transaction for the purchase of the Burke Farm property. In addition to the prison term, Judge Wolfson sentenced Lucas to serve three years of supervised release and forfeit Burke Farm. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI Red Bank Office, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Richard M. Frankel; special agents of IRS-Criminal Investigation, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Jonathan D. Larsen; and investigators with the U.S. Attorney’s Office, for the investigation leading to today’s sentencing. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Matthew Skahill in Camden and Rahul Agarwal in Newark, both of the U.S. Attorney’s Special Prosecutions Division.
corruption LOS ANGELES—A federal grand jury today indicted the chief of police for the Port of Los Angeles on corruption and tax charges. The corruption charges in the indictment relate to a scheme in which the chief stood to financially benefit from the development of a social networking program that would become the official smartphone app for the Port and would then be marketed to other law enforcement agencies. Ronald Jerome Boyd, 57, of Torrance, who in January was named as chief of public safety and emergency management at the port, was charged in a 16-count indictment returned by a grand jury. The indictment accuses Boyd of corruption, lying to FBI agents, failing to file federal corporate tax returns for a private security company he created, and tax evasion. At the center of the case are four “honest services” wire fraud charges that accuse Boyd of executing “a scheme to defraud the citizens of the City of Los Angeles and the Harbor Department for the City of Los Angeles of their right to the honest services of defendant Boyd by means of bribery and kickbacks, materially false and fraudulent pretenses and representations, and the concealment of material facts.” The corruption scheme centers on a program called Portwatch, which was developed to provide information to the public and to allow citizens to report criminal activity at the port. In 2011, Boyd and two business partners formed BDB Digital Communications, a company that entered into a revenue-sharing agreement with the unnamed company developing Portwatch. The parties involved with BDB intended to generate revenues by marketing and selling a similar app—called Metrowatch—to other government agencies. “Under the terms of this agreement, defendant Boyd would receive approximately 13.33 percent of all gross revenues generated by the sale of the Metrowatch application throughout the United States,” according to the indictment. The revenue-sharing agreement was contingent upon Boyd’s assistance in securing the Portwatch contract for the unnamed company. Over the course of a year beginning in October 2011, Boyd took steps to benefit the unnamed company with respect to the Portwatch contract. The indictment alleges that his actions included hosting a private meeting with the unnamed company for the purpose of disclosing confidential information, meeting with Los Angeles officials that included the city attorney and the mayor, editing the scope of work for the Portwatch contract so that he could personally monitor the Portwatch app’s development, and urging the Port to expedite a press release to announce the implementation of the Portwatch app. The indictment goes on to allege that Boyd, who was interviewed by special agents with the FBI last October, lied to the investigators when he denied having any financial interest in Metrowatch. The indictment alleges that Boyd falsely stated that BDB was created to sell body armor, and that he was unaware of the revenue-sharing agreement between the unnamed company and BDB. In relation to these alleged misrepresentations, Boyd faces three counts of making false statements. Counts 8 through 16 of the indictment allege tax violations. Boyd is specifically charged with four counts of failing to file tax returns for the years 2008 through 2011 for his security business, At Close Range. He is also charged with five counts of tax evasion for the tax years 2007 through 2011 for failing to report income that was “substantially greater than the amount stated on the return,” according to the indictment. An indictment contains allegations that a defendant has committed a crime. Every defendant is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty in court. If he is convicted of all 16 counts in the indictment, Boyd would face a statutory maximum sentence of 124 years in federal prison. Boyd is expected to surrender to federal authorities next week on a date to be determined. The case against Boyd is the product of an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and IRS—Criminal Investigation.
corruption BOSTON—A former Boston Police Officer was sentenced today in U.S. District Court in Boston for making false statements to the FBI relating to an investigation of the Academy Homes Street Gang (AHSG), a violent narcotics trafficking gang that operated out of the Academy Homes housing development in Roxbury. Mel Steele, 36, of Boston, was sentenced to one year of probation and a fine of $2,000. In October 2014, Steele pleaded guilty to one count of making false statements to the FBI during the course of a federal investigation. Steele, who was assigned to the Boston Police Department’s (BPD) Youth Violence Task Force (YVTF), was a long-time friend of an associate of the AHSG. During the course of joint FBI-BPD investigation of the AHSG from 2009 to 2011, Steele provided assistance to the AHSG associate. On one occasion, Steele allegedly used his BPD computer to run a license plate check on a vehicle which was later determined to be an unmarked BPD vehicle operated by a detective who was conducting surveillance on the AHSG. On another occasion Steele contacted a Massachusetts State Trooper to glean information about a gang member’s pending charges on another criminal case. In May 2011, Steele made false statements about these matters when confronted by FBI agents. United States Attorney Carmen M. Ortiz; Vincent B. Lisi, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Boston Field Division; and Boston Police Commissioner William Evans, made the announcement today. The investigation was conducted jointly by the FBI Public Corruption Unit and the Boston Police Department Anti-Corruption Division. The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Dustin Chao of Ortiz’s Public Corruption and Special Prosecutions Unit.
corruption WASHINGTON—Thirteen current and former law enforcement officers and two other individuals have been indicted and arrested for allegedly protecting narcotics shipments and cash proceeds during transit along the east coast for what they believed was a large-scale drug trafficking organization that was actually an undercover operation by the FBI. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Thomas G. Walker of the Eastern District of North Carolina and Special Agent in Charge John A. Strong of the FBI’s Charlotte, North Carolina, Division made the announcement. “Corruption in local government—especially involving law enforcement—threatens the social compact that binds our communities together,” said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. “When the officer with a gun and a badge is no different from the trafficker peddling drugs in the street, we all suffer. That is why the Criminal Division of the Department of Justice and our law enforcement partners in North Carolina and throughout the country are determined to root out corruption, wherever and in whatever form it may be found.” “The actions by these individuals are particularly troubling due to their current and past affiliation with law enforcement,” said U.S. Attorney Walker. “Their alleged conduct was reprehensible and my office will not tolerate this kind of corruption in our district. I am grateful for the outstanding work of the FBI Special Agents who investigated this case.” “They vowed to protect and serve, but instead these deputies and correctional officers sold their badges and used their law enforcement positions to line their own pockets,” said Special Agent in Charge Strong. “Public corruption at any level is the number one criminal priority of the FBI and we will work aggressively to protect the public trust.” The following individuals were indicted in the Eastern District of North Carolina and arrested today in a coordinated operation by the FBI: Lann Tjuan Clanton, 36, a correctional officer with the Virginia Department of Corrections; Ikeisha Jacobs, 32, a deputy with the Northampton County Sheriff’s Office; Jason Boone, 29, a deputy with the Northampton County Sheriff’s Office; Wardie Vincent Jr., 35, formerly of the Northampton County Sheriff’s Office; Adrienne Moody, 39, a correctional officer with the North Carolina Department of Public Safety; Cory Jackson, 43, formerly of the Northampton County Sheriff’s Office; Jimmy Pair Jr., 48, a deputy with the Northampton County Sheriff’s Office; Curtis Boone, 31, a deputy with the Northampton County Sheriff’s Office; Antonio Tillmon, 31, a police officer with the Windsor City Police Department; Alaina Kamling, 27, a correctional officer with the North Carolina Department of Public Safety; Kavon Phillips, 25, a correctional officer with the North Carolina Department of Public Safety; Crystal Pierce, 31, of Raleigh, North Carolina; Alphonso Ponton, 42, a correctional officer with the Virginia Department of Corrections; Thomas Jefferson Allen II, 37, a deputy with the Northampton County Sheriff’s Office; and Tosha Dailey, 31, a 911 dispatch operator for Northampton County. All 15 defendants are charged with conspiring to distribute controlled substances and conspiring to use and carry firearms during and in relation to drug trafficking offenses. Other charges against certain defendants include attempted extortion, attempted possession with intent to distribute controlled substances, money laundering, federal programs bribery and use and carry of firearms during and in relation to crimes of violence and drug trafficking offenses. The charges contained in the indictment are merely accusations. The defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. The case is being investigated by the FBI’s Charlotte Division, Raleigh Resident Agency and the North Carolina Department of Public Safety, with assistance from the Halifax County Sheriff’s Office. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Lauren Bell and Menaka Kalaskar of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Brian S. Meyers of the Eastern District of North Carolina.
corruption SACRAMENTO, CA—A federal grand jury returned a four-count indictment today against Gursharan Phagura, 39, and Harminder Phagura, 35, both residents of Yuba City, United States Attorney Benjamin B. Wagner announced. According to court documents, Gursharan Phagura and Harminder are accused of conspiring to possess, with intent to distribute, cocaine, as well as accepting and facilitating bribes. The indictment alleges that Harminder Phagura used his authority as a police officer to gather sensitive information, which Gursharan Phagura transmitted to a third party, who was posing as a cocaine trafficker. Gursharan Phagura is charged separately with possessing, with intent to distribute, cocaine in 2011. Harminder Phagura and Gursharan Phagura were arrested on April 15, 2015. Harminder Phagura was released on a $100,000 bond. Gursharan Phagura is in pretrial custody. This case was the product of an investigation by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s (ICE) Homeland Security Investigations (HSI). The Federal Bureau of Investigation also provided resources to the investigation. The Yuba City Police Department has assisted in the investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Paul Hemesath is prosecuting the case. If convicted, the defendants face a maximum statutory penalty of 20 years in prison and a $1,000,000 fine. Any sentence, however, would be determined at the discretion of the court after consideration of any applicable statutory factors and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, which take into account a number of variables. The charges are only allegations; the defendant is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption Earlier today at the federal courthouse in Brooklyn, Akbar Ahmad Sherzai, an independent contractor for a trucking company operating in Afghanistan responsible for delivering fuel to U.S. Army installations, was sentenced to 48 months’ imprisonment, three years of supervised release, and forfeiture of $54,000 for his role in offering a U.S. Army serviceman bribes to falsify documents to reflect the successful delivery of fuel shipments that Army records indicate were never delivered. The sentencing proceeding was held before U.S. District Judge Margo K. Brodie. Sherzai previously pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit bribery. The sentence was announced by Kelly T. Currie, Acting United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, Leslie R. Caldwell, Assistant Attorney General of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, John F. Sopko, Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, Diego G. Rodriguez, Assistant Director-in-Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, New York Field Office, Raymond R. Parmer, Special Agent in Charge, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Homeland Security Investigations (HSI), and Frank Robey, Director of the U.S. Army’s Criminal Investigation Command. “Attempts to corrupt American officials will not be tolerated, either at home or abroad,” stated Acting United States Attorney Currie. “Our efforts to bring to justice those who would do so do not end at our nation’s borders.” Mr. Currie extended his grateful appreciation to each of the agencies who participated in the investigation and prosecution of this case. The U.S. Army regularly contracts with local Afghan trucking companies to transport U.S. military equipment, fuel, and other supplies throughout Afghanistan. To ensure the companies fulfilled these requests, the U.S. Army used transportation movement requests (TMRs), which, when properly completed, verified that the shipments were successfully completed before approving payments to the trucking companies. In April 2013, Sherzai approached a U.S. military serviceman to discuss fuel delivery missions that had been classified by the U.S. Army as “no-shows,” meaning that the fuel had not been delivered. Sherzai offered the serviceman a bribe to falsify the TMRs to reflect successful deliveries so that Sherzai’s company would receive payment and avoid penalties for failed fuel deliveries. The serviceman, under the supervision of law enforcement, continued to meet with Sherzai to discuss payments for the falsification of records. On two separate occasions, Sherzai paid the serviceman bribes in cash on American military bases in Afghanistan. On another occasion, Sherzai arranged for the serviceman’s bribe to be transferred to the United States through a hawala, an informal money transfer system. In total, Sherzai paid the serviceman $54,000 in cash to falsify 14 TMRs. Each “no show” delivery mission, absent the fraudulent TMRs, would have resulted in a fine of the company by the U.S. government of $75,000. The government’s case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Amir H. Toossi and Trial Attorney Daniel Butler of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section. The Defendant: AKBAR AHMAD SHERZAI Age: 50 Centerville, Virginia Citizenship: Dual United States and Afghanistan E.D.N.Y. Docket No. 14-Cr-60 (MKB) Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption NEWARK, NJ—An Essex County corrections officer today admitted accepting bribes in exchange for smuggling contraband, including cell phones and tobacco, into the Essex County Jail, a federal pretrial detention facility, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. John Grosso, 41, of Belleville, New Jersey, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Stanley R. Chesler to an information charging him with one count of conspiring to commit extortion under color of official right. According to the documents filed in this case and statements made in court: Grosso, a corrections officer at the Essex County Jail, admitted that in December 2013, he agreed to accept cash bribes in return for his assistance smuggling cell phones and cigarettes to an inmate. Grosso met with the inmate’s relative in Secaucus, New Jersey, to accept the contraband and bribe before delivering the items to the inmate. The conspiracy charge to which Grosso pleaded guilty carries a maximum potential penalty of 20 years in prison and a fine of $250,000. Grosso also must forfeit the $1,000 bribe he received in December 2013. Sentencing is scheduled for Aug. 19, 2015. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Richard M. Frankel in Newark, and the Internal Affairs Division of Essex County Correctional Facility, under the leadership of Warden Roy Hendricks, with the investigation leading to today’s plea. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Rahul Agarwal of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division and Robert L. Frazer of the Criminal Division, Organized Crime/Gangs Unit, in Newark. Defense counsel: Elizabeth H. Smith Esq., Mendham, New Jersey
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, today announced that KISHA PERKINS, 43, of Waterbury, pleaded guilty yesterday before U.S. District Judge Michael P. Shea in Hartford to participating in a bribe scheme at the Federal Correctional Institution in Danbury (FCI Danbury) where she was employed. “There is no tolerance for corrupt employees within the ranks of the Bureau of Prisons,” stated U.S. Attorney Daly. “Prison officials, like this defendant, will be held accountable in federal court. I commend the FBI and the Department of Justice’s Office of the Inspector General for their diligence in uncovering this corrosive bribery scheme. The U.S. Attorney’s Office and our investigative partners are committed to rooting out corruption at all levels of government.” According to court documents and statements made in court, PERKINS was employed as a case manager at FCI Danbury. After receiving information about an alleged scheme to solicit and collect cash bribes from FCI Danbury inmates in exchange for a recommendation that inmates be released early to “halfway houses,” federal law enforcement initiated an undercover operation. As part of the operation, another FCI Danbury employee, working in an undercover capacity, told PERKINS about a scheme in which an inmate was purporting to make a cash payment in exchange for the inmate’s early release to a halfway house. In pleading guilty, PERKINS admitted to having participated in that scheme and also admitted that, in February 2014, she agreed to accept a pair of shoes or a Louis Vuitton pocketbook in return for aiding in the commission of the scheme by counseling the employee regarding the bribe scheme and failing to report the bribe scheme to prison officials. PERKINS was arrested on March 14, 2014. PERKINS pleaded guilty to one count of acceptance of a bribe by a public official, an offense that carries a maximum term of imprisonment of 15 years and a fine of up to $250,000. She is scheduled to be sentenced on July 21, 2015. This matter is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Susan Wines.
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, announced that GEORGE GALLO, 46, of East Hampton, waived his right to indictment and pleaded guilty today before U.S. District Judge Vanessa L. Bryant in Hartford to one count of mail fraud related to his receipt of more than $100,000 from a political campaign direct mail company to which he steered business. According to court documents and statements made in court, GALLO was an employee of the State of Connecticut as the Chief of Staff to the Minority Leader of the Connecticut House of Representatives. As part of his responsibilities, GALLO was responsible for designing and overseeing the campaign program of the House Republican Campaign Committee (“HRCC”), a state-registered political action committee that provides material and strategic support to Republican candidates for the Connecticut House of Representatives. In 2008, GALLO and others developed a HRCC campaign program in anticipation of the first general election cycle in which candidates seeking election to the Connecticut General Assembly or statewide office would receive public financing through the state’s Citizens’ Election Program (“CEP”). The purpose of the new program, in part, was to enable the HRCC to centrally coordinate CEP funded campaigns by providing Republican House candidates with access to comprehensive campaign related services, including direct mail services, voter information, polling, messaging advice and campaign management. GALLO selected the campaign service vendors that were permitted to participate in the HRCC program. In pleading guilty, GALLO admitted that he informed an employee of a Florida-based company that provided direct mail services to political campaigns of a new business opportunity in Connecticut. GALLO indicated to the employee that the CEP would lead to greater numbers of well-funded Republican House candidates in need of direct mail services, and that the Florida company could serve as a HRCC sponsored vendor with access to CEP funded Republican candidates. In exchange, the company would make payments to GALLO equal to 10 percent of the revenue that the company received from candidates participating in the HRCC program. GALLO indicated to the employee that such an arrangement would be “good for [the company] and good for George Gallo.” The employee agreed to GALLO’s proposal. As part of the scheme, GALLO and the HRCC hosted “campaign schools” for House Republican candidates where HRCC sponsored vendors, including the Florida company, gave presentations marketing their services. GALLO and others arranged for candidates to meet individually with the Florida company to discuss in greater detail the company’s services, prices and a direct mail plan. These meetings occurred at several locations, including the State Capitol. During the 2008 and 2012 election cycles, GALLO made false representations to the Minority Leader of the Connecticut House of Representatives that he did not have a financial relationship with or receive any compensation from any of the HRCC sponsored vendors. During the 2008, 2010 and 2012 election cycles, GALLO made additional false representations to others, knowing that his statements would be communicated to House Republican candidates participating in the HRCC campaign program, that he did not receive any compensation from any HRCC sponsored vendor. From 2008 through 2012, the Florida company mailed checks made payable to the Vinco Group, a Cromwell based limited liability company in which GALLO was the sole member, totaling approximately $117,266.63. In pleading guilty, GALLO further admitted that he made multiple false statements to FBI special agents on October 1, 2013, when he was interviewed about his relationship with HRCC sponsored vendors. In the interview, GALLO denied that either he or the Vinco Group had a business relationship with any vendors utilized by HRCC, and he denied that he had received any income through the Vinco Group since becoming Chief of Staff to the Connecticut House Minority Leader. Judge Bryant scheduled sentencing for July 29, 2015, at which time GALLO faces a maximum term of imprisonment of 20 years. Follow his guilty plea, GALLO was released on a $200,000 bond. This matter is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Internal Revenue Service – Criminal Investigation Division, with the assistance of the Connecticut Public Corruption Task Force and the State Election Enforcement Commission. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher M. Mattei.
corruption COLUMBIA, SC—United States Attorney Bill Nettles stated today that James R. Metts, age 68, was sentenced today in federal court in Columbia, South Carolina, for Conspiracy to Harbor Illegal Aliens, a violation of 8 U.S.C. § 1324(a)(1)(A)(v)(I). Chief United States District Judge Terry L. Wooten sentenced Metts to 12 months and one day in prison, two years of supervised release, and a $10,000 fine. Evidence presented throughout the prosecution established that Metts was the forty-two year sheriff of Lexington County. Beginning in September 2011, Metts agreed with a City Councilman, and an owner of local restaurants, to assist restaurant employees to avoid identification and processing by a federal immigration program housed at the Lexington County Detention Center. As one example, on September 16, 2011, a restaurant employee who was an illegal alien was arrested and transported to the detention center. The restaurant owner contacted the City Councilman who in turn called Metts and requested assistance. Metts contacted a member of his command staff about the illegal alien. Based on Metts’ early intervention, this alien was released improperly on a state bond prior to being identified or processed by federal immigration authorities as reflected in the federal immigration logbook with the notation, “Release per Sheriff Metts.” Bill Nettles stated, “One of the cornerstones of democracy is citizens having faith that law enforcement acts with integrity and not in a self-serving ‘good ole boy’ system. Today’s resolution is a step towards restoring the shine to the badge that Mr. Metts tarnished.” The case was part of the cooperative efforts of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Homeland Security Investigation, State Law Enforcement Division, the South Carolina Attorney General’s Office, and the United States Attorney’s Office. Assistant United States Attorneys Jay N. Richardson and Jim May prosecuted the case.
corruption A 2010 Congressional candidate for Florida’s 25th Congressional District, along with the campaign manager for an opposing candidate from a different party, have been charged jointly with violating federal election laws. Benjamin G. Greenberg, First Assistant United States Attorney, and George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office, made the announcement. Jeffrey Garcia, 42, and Jose Rolando Arrojo, 41, of Miami, were charged, by criminal information, with conspiring to make and accept excessive contributions to the 2010 Roly Arrojo for Congress Committee, in violation of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971. According to the information, during the 2010 election cycle, Garcia was the campaign manager for a candidate (“Candidate A”) opposing Arrojo in the general election. The information alleges that the objective of the conspiracy was to benefit Candidate A by splitting the general election votes of his opponents, by causing and funding the existence of Arrojo’s campaign. The information also alleges the conspirators used third party checks to conceal the contributions. A $12,000 check signed by Garcia, and drawn from the campaign account of Candidate A, was made payable to Palm Media, LLC, a company that was also owned and operated by Garcia. Garcia then signed two checks, made payable to cash in the amounts of $5,000 and $5,500, drawn from the Palm Media, LLC account. These checks were deposited by Arrojo into a personal account. Arrojo subsequently wrote a $10,500 check from the personal account made payable to “Roly Arrojo for Congress” which was deposited into the bank account for the Roly Arrojo for Congress Committee. Arrojo then caused a $10,440 check to issue from the Committee’s account to the Department of State, in order to cover his filing fee expenses. Arrojo submitted this check, along with an Oath of Candidate form, to the Department of State in order to be placed on the ballot in 2010 for Florida’s 25th Congressional District. In 2010, the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971, as amended, established a $2,400 per election limit on contributions from any individual to a federal candidates’ authorized campaign committee. Therefore, because the contributions alleged in the information did not exceed the permissible amount by more than $25,000, Garcia and Arrojo face a maximum possible sentence of one year in prison. Mr. Greenberg commended the investigative efforts of the FBI Miami Area Corruption Task Force. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Kimberly A. Selmore. A criminal information is only an accusation and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Southern District of Florida at www.flsd.uscourts.gov or on http://pacer.flsd.uscourts.gov.
corruption U.S. Attorney Kenneth A. Polite announced that former District Attorney for the 22nd Judicial District,WALTER P. REED, age 68, and STEVEN P. REED, age 43, both from Covington, were charged with offenses related to their involvement in a conspiracy to commit wire fraud and money laundering related to the misuse of funds from WALTER P. REED’S campaign account. Additionally, WALTER P. REED was charged with wire fraud for his personal misuse of campaign funds, mail fraud based on his diverting into his personal accounts funds from St. Tammany Parish Hospital that were intended for the Office of the District Attorney for the 22nd Judicial District, and filing false tax returns. According to the Indictment, WALTER P. REED and STEVEN P. REED devised a scheme to defraud the Walter Reed Campaign and contributors to the Walter Reed Campaign by using donations toWALTER P. REED’S campaign to pay for goods and services either unrelated to the campaign or in an amount that grossly exceeded the value of the services provided. The Indictment alleges that WALTER P. REED caused a series of payments to be made from the Campaign Fund to STEVEN P. REED’s companies in order to pay down a loan on which WALTER P. REED was a cosigner for services that either were not provided or whose value was substantially less than the amount paid. For example, WALTER P. REED caused, STEVEN P. REED’S company, Globop, to be paid approximately $8,352.64 for producing a housewarming party at WALTER P. REED’S new condominium in April 2012 that was unrelated to WALTER P. REED’S campaign. Similarly, STEVEN P. REED’s company, Liquid Bread LLC, received $29,400 from the Campaign Fund account for purportedly providing catering or bar services at a campaign event at the Castine Center in September 2012 that STEVEN P. REED did not actually provide. WALTER P. REED also required two companies that provided services at the September 2012 event to kickback a portion of their payments toSTEVEN P. REED as a means to funnel campaign monies to him. WALTER P. REED also paid for numerous other personal expenses unrelated to his campaign out of his Campaign Fund, including flowers with an accompanying message that stated, “[T]o my rodeo girl from a secret admirer from Camp J,” $1,885.36 for a Thanksgiving Day dinner for REED and approximately ten other members of his family and a $500 gift card for his future personal use, and $2,635.00 to a North shore steakhouse for a dinner he hosted for “Pentecostal Preachers” for the purpose of recruiting clients to refer him private civil legal work. Subsequently, REED also sought, and received, a reimbursement for the $2,635.00 dinner from the law firm with which he was affiliated, which he did not then put back into his Campaign Fund. In total, WALTER P. REED, spent at least $100,000 from the Walter Reed Campaign Fund bank account on personal expenses in this manner, including to recruit potential clients for his private legal practice, to pay off various expenses incurred by his son, STEVEN P. REED, and to pay for private and personal dinners. The Indictment also alleges that WALTER P. REED diverted money paid by St. Tammany Parish Hospital for work performed by the Office of the District Attorney to his personal bank account. Specifically, between about 1994 and 2014, St. Tammany Parish Hospital retained the services of the Office of the District Attorney to advise it on various matters, for which it agreed to pay between $25,000 and $30,000 per year. REED attended some of the monthly meetings, though on dozens of occasions he directed Assistant District Attorneys to attend. Notwithstanding REED’s use of resources and personnel of his office, REED deposited into his own personal bank account each check provided by St. Tammany Parish Hospital that were intended for the Office of the District Attorney. If convicted, WALTER P. REED faces up to 277 years in prison, followed by up to a three (3) year term of supervised release, and up to a $ 4,500,000 fine. STEVEN P. REED faces up to 65 years in prison, followed by up to a three (3) year term of supervised release, and up to a $1,000,000 fine. United States Attorney Polite reiterated that the Indictment is merely a charge and that the guilt of the defendant must be proven beyond a reasonable doubt. U.S. Attorney Polite praised the work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Internal Revenue Service – Criminal Investigation for investigating this matter and thanked the Metropolitan Crime Commission for their assistance. The prosecution of this case is being handled by Assistant United States Attorney Jordan Ginsberg and First Assistant United States Attorney Richard Westling.
corruption ALICIA A.G. LIMTIACO, United States Attorney for the Districts of Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands, announced that EUGENE JESUS MENO SUNEGA, age 33, of Sinajana, Guam pled guilty on April 23, 2015, in the U.S. District Court, before Chief Judge Frances Tydingco-Gatewood, to one count of Providing Contraband in Prison. SUNEGA was charged on March 4, 2015 by a federal grand jury in a four-count indictment with Conspiracy to Distribute Methamphetamine, Possession with Intent to Distribute Methamphetamine, Providing Contraband in Prison, and False Statement or Representation. Sentencing for SUNEGA is scheduled for July 27, 2015. The offense of Providing Contraband in Prison carries a statutory maximum sentence of 20 years in prison. According to court documents, SUNEGA abused his position of trust as a Guam Department of Corrections Officer by attempting to smuggle contraband methamphetamine to prison inmate Gregorio Cruz. The methamphetamine weighed approximately 3.9 grams and was approximately 95.3% pure, according to forensic analysis. SUNEGA also lied to federal agents investigating the incident when he claimed to have never personally smoked methamphetamine. This incident was discovered by Guam Department of Corrections officials. The federal case is the result of an investigation conducted by the DEA Guam Resident Office and the FBI Guam Resident Agency. Credit is also given to GPD’s Special Investigation Section and to the ATF. The prosecution was handled by Assistant U.S. Attorney Mohammad Khatib.
corruption In El Paso today, 45-year-old Supervisory Department of Homeland Security U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officer Marco Antonio Aveytia waived his arraignment and entered a not guilty plea to lying to federal authorities in connection with an ongoing investigation announced Acting United States Attorney Richard L. Durbin, Jr., CBP Deputy Special Agent in Charge Art Martinez, Jr., and Special Agent in Charge Douglas E. Lindquist of the FBI’s El Paso Division. A federal grand jury indictment returned last Wednesday charges Aveytia with one count of falsification of records in a federal investigation. The indictment alleges Aveytia that on January 26, 2014, Aveytia provided false information that his government issued firearm was stolen during a burglary of his residence. Upon conviction, Aveytia faces up to 20 years in federal prison and a maximum $250,000 fine. Aveytia, who was arrested on Monday, is currently on bond awaiting further court proceedings. Jury selection and trial, before U.S. District Judge Philip Martinez, has yet to be scheduled. The case resulted from a joint investigation by the CBP-Office of Internal Affairs and the FBI. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Greg McDonald. It is important to note that an indictment is merely a charge and should not be considered as evidence of guilt. The defendant is considered innocent until proven guilty in a court of law.
corruption CHICAGO—A former North Chicago school board member, and the last defendant of five, was sentenced today to 30 months in federal prison for receiving at least $566,000 in kickbacks from three co-defendants who controlled several different transportation companies that received more than $21 million in student bus contracts over nearly a decade. The defendant, ALICE SHERROD, 63, of North Chicago, pleaded guilty in September 2013 to one count each of wire fraud and filing a false federal income tax return. Sherrod admitted that between 2001 and 2010 she schemed to deprive the approximately 4,000-student North Chicago Community Unit School District 187 (NCSD) of her honest services. Sherrod, who was the school district’s Director of Transportation, participated in the fraud scheme with four co-defendants, including Gloria Harper, who was the former President of the North Chicago school board. The three co-defendants funneled kickbacks totaling at least $800,000 to Harper and Sherrod and made more than $9.6 million in profits. “Unlike three of her co-defendants, she was in a position of public trust that affected poor children. She did not think about who she was hurting. And this went on for more than five years.” U.S. District Judge Sharon Johnson Coleman said in imposing the sentence today. Judge Coleman ordered Sherrod to serve her sentence beginning August 31, 2015. The judge also ordered Sherrod to pay approximately $7.2 million in restitution. “The North Chicago School District has one of the highest low-income populations in the state. But rather than looking out for the interests of the district’s taxpayers and the children who depended on the schools for education, Sherrod selfishly used her position to enrich herself, and then filed false tax returns,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Matthew Getter argued in the government’s sentencing memorandum. All five defendants pled guilty last year and have been sentenced. In addition to Sherrod’s sentence of 30 months imposed today, Gloria Harper, 64, of Berwyn and formerly of Gurnee, received a 10 year sentence, Tommie Boddie, 69, of Harvest, Ala., and formerly of Wadsworth received a one-day term of imprisonment followed by a three year term of supervised release including nine months’ home confinement; Derrick Eubanks, 50, of Lake Villa received six months’ imprisonment; and Barrett White, 55, of Matteson, received a one day term of imprisonment followed by a one year term of supervised release during which White will spend the first six months of supervised release serving weekend imprisonment. Sherrod, who was District 187’s transportation director from 2001 to July 2010, used her position, along with Harper, to enrich themselves secretly by soliciting and accepting gifts and cash from their three co-defendants in exchange for favorable official action regarding student transportation contracts. Initially, Harper and Sherrod received kickbacks of approximately $4,000 to $5,000 a month but, by 2003, they were collecting approximately $20,000 a month. From the late 1990s until mid-2003, the NCSD contracted with various companies to provide student transportation, including T&M Transportation, which was owned in part and controlled by Boddie, and Eubanks Transportation, which was owned in part and controlled by Eubanks. In 2001, Harper and Sherrod met with Boddie and agreed they would arrange for the NCSD to increase the number of students that T&M transported in exchange for kickback payments. In May 2003, Harper suggested to Boddie and Eubanks that they join together to form one company ― Safety First Transportation, Inc., which won the NCSD’s transportation contract in 2003, and Harper, Sherrod, Boddie, and Eubanks agreed that they would split the profits from the contract. After an IRS audit of Safety First in 2006-2007, White, who had been acting as the “bagman” for the kickbacks, began receiving funds from Safety First as both an employee and a contractor, even though he provided little service other than being the bagman. In April 2008, the defendants agreed to set up a new company, Quality Trans, LLC, to replace Safety First and to assume its contracts with the school district. All five agreed to continue splitting profits from Quality Trans, and Boddie, Eubanks and White continued making cash payments to Harper and Sherrod. The sentence was announced by Zachary T. Fardon, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois; Robert J. Holley, Special Agent-in-Charge of the Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and Stephen Boyd, Special Agent-in-Charge of the Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation Division in Chicago. The North Chicago School District cooperated with the investigation.
corruption Preet Bharara, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, announced that former Spring Valley Mayor NORAMIE JASMIN was found guilty in federal court today of engaging in a bribery scheme in which she negotiated a 50 percent stake for herself in a development company and $5,000 cash in exchange for her use of her office to obtain land and various government approvals to construct a community center in Spring Valley. She was convicted after a one week bench trial before U.S. District Judge Colleen McMahon. Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said: “This office is committed to ensuring the integrity of New York public officials at all levels and wherever they may be. Today, I announce the conviction of yet another corrupt elected official who failed to live up to her oath of office. Former Spring Valley Mayor Noramie Jasmin used her official position to influence a construction project on a parcel of public land, and she accepted bribes, including a secret fifty percent share of the project, to do so. Like all citizens, the residents of Spring Valley deserved an honest mayor, not one who worked behind closed doors and behind their backs to sell public land and public office for private gain. I want to thank the FBI, the Rockland County District Attorney’s Office, and the Spring Valley Police Department for their outstanding work on this important investigation.” According to the Complaint and the Indictment filed in federal court and the evidence presented at trial: NORAMIE JASMIN was sworn in as Mayor of the Village of Spring Valley, New York, in December 2009. From September 2011 through April 2013, JASMIN accepted bribes from an undercover FBI agent (the “UC”) and a cooperating witness working with the Government (the “CW”), on multiple occasions in exchange for official acts. The bribe scheme centered on the development of a community center in the Village of Spring Valley whose construction costs were expected to be at least $12 million. In exchange for her vote in favor of a sale of land owned by Spring Valley to a company she believed was controlled by the UC, JASMIN demanded a secret ownership stake in the company. JASMIN also asked for an advance on her profits from the scheme and accepted a $5,000 cash payment from the CW. In support of the scheme, JASMIN directed the UC to find people to pose as bidders for the project so that the transaction would appear legitimate to the other members of the Spring Valley Board of Trustees who voted on the sale. Over the course of two days, JASMIN met the UC and two other undercover FBI agents posing as straw bidders (the “Straw Bidders”) in hotel rooms and instructed the Straw Bidders on how to make a presentation before the Spring Valley Board of Trustees such that the Straw Bidders would lose their purported bids on the land sale. JASMIN then presided over the presentations made by the company in which she had a secret financial stake and the fake presentations that she had helped prepare. The following day, JASMIN presided over a Village Board of Trustees meeting, during which she asked the Board for permission to negotiate the sale of Village land to the UC’s company and then voted with a “strong yes” to grant herself that permission. When questioned as to why the Board needed to vote to grant her that permission, JASMIN remarked that she “cannot sit behind closed doors with a developer to negotiate on behalf of the Board,” precisely what she did in the days preceding that vote. * * * JASMIN, 51, of Spring Valley, was found guilty of one count of mail fraud and one count of extortion. Each count carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison and a maximum fine of $250,000, or twice the gross gain or loss from the offense. The maximum potential sentences in this case are prescribed by Congress and are provided here for informational purposes only, as any sentencing of the defendant will be determined by the judge. JASMIN is scheduled to be sentenced by Judge McMahon on August 7, 2015 at 10 a.m. Mr. Bharara praised the outstanding investigative work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Rockland County District Attorney’s Office, and Chief Paul Modica and the Spring Valley Police Department. This case is being handled by the Office’s White Plains Division and Public Corruption Unit. Assistant United States Attorneys Douglas B. Bloom and Jessica K. Feinstein are in charge of the prosecution. Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption TUSCALOOSA—A former colonel in the U.S. Army pleaded guilty today in federal court for criminal misconduct arising from his duties associated with various helicopter procurement contracts at Redstone Arsenal in Huntsville. U.S. Attorney Joyce White Vance, FBI Special Agent in Charge Roger C. Stanton, Special Inspector General John F. Sopko for Afghanistan Reconstruction, Deputy Inspector General for Investigations James B. Burch of the Defense Department’s Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS), and Frank Robey, director of the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command’s (CID) Major Procurement Fraud Unit made the announcement. NORBERT VERGEZ, 49, formerly of Mesa, Ariz., pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge L. Scott Coogler to the three counts of a government information filed last week: two counts charging false statements and one count charging conflict of interest. No sentencing date has been set. “Colonel Vergez placed his own financial ambitions and personal loyalties above his duties as a member of the armed forces,” Vance said. “In doing so, he betrayed the U.S. Army values of honesty, integrity and selfless service, which are hallmarks of military service. This prosecution highlights our commitment to hold responsible those who, by word and deed, corrupt the government contracting process.” According to his plea agreement, Vergez served from 2010 to 2012 as the program manager for “Non-Standard Rotary Wing Aircraft” (NSRWA), a component of the Army located at Redstone Arsenal, which was responsible for contracts involving certain “non-standard” helicopters, including the Russian-made Mi-17. Vergez pleaded guilty to three instances of making false statements and using false writings in communicating with the Department of Defense Office of Inspector General (DODIG) in connection with a DODIG audit of a Mi-17 overhaul contract administered in part by NSRWA. One aspect of the audit had to do with the role NSRWA played in certain contract disputes that involved various contractors and subcontractors in the contracting chain, including a third-tier subcontractor known as Avia Baltika Aviation Ltd. (AVB). Vergez admitted in his plea agreement that on two occasions he made or caused his office to make false representations to DODIG that his office had no direct contact with AVB concerning its subcontract on the Northrop Grumman contract, when, as Vergez then knew, he and his direct subordinates at NSRWA had significant direct contacts with AVB related to its subcontract. Vergez also admitted that on Feb. 1, 2012, he directed a subordinate official to create and sign a document bearing the typed date Dec. 5, 2011, representing that a $3.67 million claim by AVB under the contract was reasonable. As a result of this backdating, it falsely appeared that the subordinate official had approved the $3.67 million payment before directions were given to Northrop to make that payment. That document was then provided to DODIG in response to its requests for supporting documentation surrounding this attempt to have Northrop pay AVB. According to the plea agreement, Vergez admitted that he engaged in a criminal conflict of interest by taking official acts as a government official to assist a helicopter manufacturing company in negotiating a “foreign military sale” and adjusting a contract so that the company received payment faster than originally agreed upon at a time when Vergez was negotiating future employment with that company. Vergez further admitted that he made false statements in his “Confidential Financial Disclosure Report,” a government ethics form, for the year 2012, by not disclosing that his wife had received a Rolex wristwatch from the wife of a representative of AVB; that he had accepted an offer of employment with a private company; and that he had received a $30,000 check from that company. The Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR), DCIS, CID and the FBI investigated the case. Department of Justice Trial Attorney Mark H. Dubester of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section (on detail from SIGAR) and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Henry Cornelius and Ramona Albin are prosecuting the case.
corruption TOPEKA, KS—A former Kansas state legislator was sentenced Monday to 18 months in federal prison for defrauding Farmers and Merchants Bank of Colby, Kan., of more than $460,000, some of which he deposited in his campaign account, U.S. Attorney Barry Grissom said. He also was ordered to pay $461,000 in restitution. Trent K. LeDoux, 40, Holton, Kan., pleaded guilty to one count of bank fraud. In his plea, he admitted he applied for three loans from the bank, falsely representing that he was going to use all the funds to buy cattle that would serve as the collateral for the loans. In fact, he used some of the money to pay off existing debts and to make contributions to his political campaign account. Grissom commended the FBI and Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard Hathaway for their work on the case.
corruption A police officer, formerly assigned to the Miami-Dade Police Department Narcotics Bureau, pled guilty on April 16, 2015, to aiding and abetting a conspiracy to possess with the intent to distribute marijuana. Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Filed Office, and J.D. Patterson, Director, Miami-Dade Police Department (MDPD), made the announcement. Roderick Silva, 45, of Miami, pled guilty to aiding and abetting a conspiracy with the intent to distribute marijuana. According to court documents and statements made in court, Officer Silva aided and abetted a group of persons who were illegally growing hydroponic marijuana in numerous homes that they owned, rented, or otherwise controlled, in the south west area of Miami-Dade County. This group of persons included members of the Santiesteban family, and their friends and associates. The Santiesteban family members, and a number of their friends and associates, were convicted in 2013 for their participation in a conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute over 1000 marijuana plants. The co-conspirators were sentenced to significant prison sentences for their participation in the narcotics conspiracy. Officer Silva aided and abetted the Santiesteban family members, and their friends and associates, in their marijuana growing activities by providing them with confidential information about when they were being investigated by MDPD narcotics detectives, and when they might have their marijuana grow houses searched and their marijuana plants seized; and by providing advice to the Santiestebans and their friends and associates about how to avoid, deflect, frustrate, and obstruct those MDPD investigations. Silva is scheduled to be sentenced on July 21, 2015 by U.S. District judge Robert N. Scola Jr. At sentencing, Silva faces a minimum mandatory sentence of five years in prison up to 40 years in prison on the aiding and abetting a conspiracy charge. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI and MDPD. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Michael P. Sullivan and Andy Camacho. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Southern District of Florida at www.flsd.uscourts.gov or on http://pacer.flsd.uscourts.gov.
corruption BUFFALO, NY—U.S. Attorney William J. Hochul, Jr. announced today that Tasha Collier, 38, of Buffalo, NY, pleaded guilty before Chief U.S. District Judge Frank P. Geraci, Jr., to theft and conversion concerning programs receiving federal funds. The charge carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a fine of $250,000. Assistant U.S. Attorney Joseph M. Guerra, who is handling the case, stated that the defendant was employed as a clerk in the Licensing Department of the City of Buffalo between July 2013 and August 25, 2014. As part of her duties as a clerk, Collier was responsible for collecting payments in cash and by check for licenses issued by the City of Buffalo. Between September 2013 and August 2014, the defendant stole approximately $22,000 in cash, funds that were supposed to be remitted to the City Treasury Department. The plea is the culmination of an investigation on the part of Special Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Buffalo Police Department, under the direction of Commissioner Daniel Derenda. Sentencing is scheduled for July 17, 2015 at 11:00 a.m. before Chief Judge Geraci.
corruption NEWARK, NJ—A jury today convicted Joseph A. Ferriero, the former chairman of the Bergen County Democratic Organization (BCDO), in connection with a racketeering scheme involving fraud and soliciting and accepting bribes as a party official, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Ferriero, 57, was found guilty following an eight-week trial before U.S. District Judge Esther B. Salas in Newark federal court. The jury deliberated four days before finding Ferriero guilty of conducting the BCDO’s affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity (Count One), using the mail and facilities in interstate commerce to promote bribery and distribute bribe proceeds (Count Three) and wire fraud (Count Five). “Joseph Ferriero was convicted today of running a local political organization as a criminal enterprise, using his power and position to line his pockets,” U.S. Attorney Fishman said. “The evidence we presented at trial described a racketeering operation that ran on influence peddling, bribes and kickbacks. Rooting out and prosecuting this kind of political corruption is a constant priority for this office. The people of New Jersey are entitled to honest public service.” “Today’s conviction of Joseph A. Ferriero reaffirms the FBI’s commitment to combat public corruption in New Jersey and serves as a reminder that those individuals who violate the public’s trust will be held accountable,” Richard M. Frankel, the FBI’s Special Agent in Charge, Newark, said. According to documents filed in this case and the evidence at trial: Ferriero served as the chairman of the BCDO from 1998 until January 2009 and was the sole member of SJC Consulting LLC. The jury found Ferriero accepted bribes in his capacity as BCDO chairman in the course of a scheme involving SJC. Ferriero agreed with John Carrino, a Nutley, New Jersey-based attorney and software developer that Ferriero would recommend and provide a favorable opinion of the software developer and his companies to various public officials in Bergen County with whom Ferriero had influence. The software developer agreed to pay Ferriero one-quarter to one-third of the gross receipts from any contract obtained as a result of Ferriero’s efforts. Ferriero’s financial interest in the software developer’s public contracts was completely hidden using two shell companies, one of which was created and incorporated in Nevada for the sole purpose of contracting with and accepting payments from another shell company controlled by the software developer. The racketeering charge carries a maximum potential penalty of 20 years in prison; the Travel Act charge carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison; and the wire fraud charge carries a maximum potential penalty of 20 years in prison. Each count of the indictment also carries a maximum $250,000 fine. Sentencing is scheduled for July 27, 2015. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Frankel, and investigators from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, under the direction of Supervisory Criminal Investigator Thomas Mahoney, with the investigation leading to today’s conviction. The government is represented by Counsel to the U.S. Attorney Rachael A. Honig and Assistant U.S. Attorney Barbara Llanes of the Special Prosecutions Division in Newark.
corruption BATON ROUGE, LA—United States Attorney Walt Green announced today the conviction of a former official of the Louisiana State Board of Cosmetology who engaged in a bribery scheme to sell answers to upcoming Board-administered cosmetology examinations for cash. WINN E. JOHNSON, age 71, of Boyce, Louisiana, has been charged in a Bill of Information with two counts of using the telephone in aid of bribery, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1952. This morning, JOHNSON appeared before Chief U.S. District Judge Brian A. Jackson and pled guilty. As described in Court earlier today, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Louisiana Office of the State Inspector General opened an investigation involving JOHNSON and others in 2013, based in part on allegations that JOHNSON would accept cash from individuals who were scheduled to take Board examinations. JOHNSON acknowledged in Court today that on three different occasions, he met with an individual whose wife, JOHNSON believed, was seeking to obtain a cosmetology license. Each time, JOHNSON provided the individual with answers to an upcoming Board examination, in exchange for $500 in cash. JOHNSON used his cellular telephone to arrange the meetings, which took place on various dates in 2014 in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Louisiana Inspector General Stephen Street commented: “We have zero tolerance for those who compromise the integrity of government in exchange for monetary gain. It undermines the entire system and is an enormous disservice to the taxpayers. We will continue working with the FBI and United States Attorney to make sure that anyone who does this faces criminal consequences.” U.S. Attorney Green stated: “This case is a reminder that corruption comes in a wide variety of forms. Individuals at all levels of our government can misuse their positions of trust to line their pockets, and it is never acceptable. Working with our partners at the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Louisiana Inspector General’s Office, among other agencies, we will puruse these types of allegations whenever they come to our attention. I commend the State Board’s leadership on its assistance and cooperation in helping us root out this corrupt actor.” This ongoing investigation is being handled jointly by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Louisiana Office of State Inspector General, with valuable assistance from the Louisiana State Board of Cosmetology. U.S. Attorney Green emphasized that the State Board’s leadership has consistently cooperated with the investigation. The matter is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Alan A. Stevens, who serves as a Deputy Chief of the Criminal Division.
corruption Timothy Francis Cashman, a Building Manager for the General Services Administration (“GSA”), admitted today to an almost decade-long conspiracy to accept bribes and steal property owned by the United States. In doing so, Cashman acknowledged using his position with GSA (overseeing operations and maintenance at the Otay Mesa, San Ysidro, and Tecate Ports of Entry) for his personal enrichment; rather than to fulfill GSA’s core mission of delivering “the best value in real estate, acquisition, and technology services to government and the American people.” As revealed in Court, Cashman admitted that in return for providing favorable treatment relating to the awarding of GSA contracts, he corruptly demanded that government contractor Hugo Alonso Inc. (“HAI”) give him $10,000 in cash and perform thousands of dollars’ worth of construction and renovation services on Cashman’s personal residence. These services included having HAI paint Cashman’s Lakeside home and replace his roof and windows free of charge. The former GSA building manager also admitted demanding that HAI pay another government contractor (Company “A”) $120,000 in exchange for HAI being awarded a GSA construction contract at the Otay Mesa POE. Subsequently, Cashman accepted six checks from Company “A” totaling $42,000, which he deposited into his personal account. All of the income he received from HAI was concealed from the IRS when submitting his federal income tax returns. In addition to accepting bribes from HAI, Cashman also detailed in Court how he improperly obtained thousands of dollars in valuable United States Government building materials for his own benefit by causing GSA contractors and others to remove and transport such materials away from GSA facilities where he could sell or use them without the knowledge of GSA. For example, Cashman instructed government contractors: (1) in March 2011, to load approximately 25 stainless steel panels located at the San Ysidro POE into his personal Ford truck; (2) in January 2012, to load 35 heavy brass letters (spelling out “United States Border Inspection Station” and weighing approximately 2,000 pounds) into his personal truck; (3) in December 2012, to collect approximately 3,000 feet of underground copper cable belonging to the United States and to deliver it to, among other places, his personal residence; and (4) in November 2013, to set aside for his personal sale a large quantity of underground copper cable and approximately 5 aluminum panels located at the Otay Mesa POE. United States Attorney Laura E. Duffy said, “This defendant abused his position of trust for many years and the taxpayers paid the price. Combatting public corruption will remain one of my office’s highest priorities.” She also thanked the Special Agents with the FBI, IRS-CI and GSA-OIG whose tireless work both uncovered this corruption and resulted in removing the corrupt official from the government fisc. “Mr. Cashman admittedly undermined the process of fair and open competition when he conspired to accept bribes in exchange for awarding lucrative government contracts,” said IRS Criminal Investigation’s Los Angeles Field Office Special Agent in Charge Erick Martinez. “The IRS is committed to aggressively investigating those individuals who engage in corruption, fraud and deceit designed to satisfy their greed.” “When a public servant like Mr. Cashman abuses his position and fails to conduct the public’s business in an honest and ethical manner, it undermines the public’s trust in government,” said FBI Special Agent in Charge, Eric S. Birnbaum. “When that happens, the FBI and our law enforcement partners will work together to restore the public’s trust by aggressively investigating and holding accountable those individuals who would abuse this trust for their own personal gain.” “GSA employees who take bribes and steal from the U.S. government will be investigated and prosecuted to the full extent of the law,” said GSA Acting Inspector General Robert C. Erickson. The FBI encourages the public to report allegations of public corruption to our hotline at (877) NO-BRIBE (662-7423). HAI, and its principal, Hugo Alonso, have previously pled guilty and been sentenced. Cashman is scheduled to be sentenced before U.S. District Judge Gonzalo P. Curiel on August 7, 2015 at 8:30 a.m. DEFENDANT Timothy Francis Cashman Age: 54 Lakeside, California Case Number: 14CR3621-GPC CHARGES Count 1: 18 U.S.C. § 371—Conspiracy to commit bribery and theft of government property Maximum Penalty: five years’ imprisonment and a $250,000 fine Count 2: 26 U.S.C. § 7206(1)—Filing False Tax Return Maximum Penalty: three years’ imprisonment and a $250,000 fine INVESTIGATING AGENCIES Federal Bureau of Investigation Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigations General Services Administration—Office of Inspector General CBP Office of Field Operations Defense Criminal Investigative Service Naval Criminal Investigative Service Small Business Administration—Office of Inspector General
corruption The former police chief of Kirtland Hills was sentenced to two years in prison for defrauding the village out of at least $80,000 by making unauthorized purchases of clothing, tools and goods for his own personal use, said Steven M. Dettelbach, U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio, and Stephen D. Anthony, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Cleveland office. Gerald Smith, Jr., 57, of Kirtland, previously pleaded guilty to one count of mail fraud and one count of destruction, alteration or falsification of records in a federal investigation. To date, Smith has paid $140,503, which covers the amount he stole and the village’s related legal expenses. He was ordered to pay an additional $9,034 in restitution. “Mr. Smith used the village treasury as his own personal checkbook,” Dettelbach said. “He violated the public’s trust.” “When any law enforcement officer crosses the line of being a law-abiding citizen to becoming a law-breaking citizen it is disheartening,” Anthony said. “The FBI will continue to pursue and bring to justice those in a position of trust and authority that violate that trust by breaking the law.” Smith joined the Kirtland Hills police department in 1978 and served as chief from 1988 until April 4, 2014. In this capacity, Smith was authorized to reimburse officers for work-related expenses and use village funds to procure necessary supplies, including the use of several village credit cards or lines of credit, according to the information. The department also had petty cash fund, maintained in Smith’s office, in which employees submitted receipts with their name and the purpose of the expense written on it, for which they were then reimbursed, according to court documents. Smith made approximately $80,000 in personal expenditures using village credit cards between 2007 and 2014. Some of the items were used to partially furnish his Florida condominium. Items purchased include ceiling fans, plumbing supplies, vacuum cleaners, children’s lunch boxes and story books, clothing, televisions, book shelves, personal hygiene items, firearms, car repairs and more, according to court documents. Smith concealed these purchases by making false entries on receipts to make it appear they were made by others or made for official police business. By spreading the purchases out among different funds, he prevented the village from readily noticing large amounts of expenditures from one particular fund, according to court documents. For example, Smith went on a hunting trip to Pennsylvania in 2007. While on vacation, he made the following purchases on a Kirtland Hills credit card: knife sharpening ($70), items at an Army Navy store ($269.96), and items at a sporting goods store, including Pro Hunter pants and jacket and a shirt ($209.97). He then falsely wrote on the receipt that the sporting goods clothing was SWAT clothing for a Kirtland Hills officer, according to court documents. In 2007, Smith ordered several items online, including a $107.96 pair of women’s tan Ugg boots with the village Mastercard. Smith falsely wrote on the receipt “Road Dept Boots and Boots for (a Kirtland Hills police officer),” knowing the officer did not receive the boots, according to court documents. Smith also obtained Kirtland Hills money by submitting false claims to the petty cash fund. When Kirtland Hills officers went out to lunch, or when Smith took personal trips with officers and the group stopped for food, Smith at times asked for the receipts. He then submitted the receipts for petty cash reimbursement under the officers’ names but without their knowledge, taking the cash for himself, according to court documents. On March 17, 2014, Smith was placed on leave by Kirtland Hills and required to surrender his access badges, keys and all village property. He was also served by FBI agents with a federal grand jury subpoena, which required the production of certain documents and items. On March 20, 2014, Smith secretly brought more than 50 items from his residence to a village storage shed and placed the items on the shelves, to give the appearance that these items belonged to the Village of Kirtland Hills. Among the items Smith returned were a drill, heater, dehumidifier, air purifier, camouflage tarps, socket set, channel locks, extension cords, hammer, hand saw and other items, according to court documents. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Antoinette T. Bacon following an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
corruption ATLANTA—Federal authorities have concluded an extensive public corruption and drug trafficking investigation that spanned over five years and the convictions of a Customs and Border Protection Officer from Atlanta’s airport, a DeKalb County Police Officer, and more than 10 drug traffickers who were responsible for the distribution of approximately 1 million pills of 3,4-methylenedioxy-methamphetamine (MDMA) and benzylpiperazine (BZP), a drug similar to ecstasy. Mark Tomlinson, a/k/a “Supa,” has been sentenced to 16 years in prison, and is the final defendant in this case which involved multiple federal, state and local law-enforcement agencies. “This case began with a Customs and Border Protection officer taking payoffs to smuggle guns and purported drug money through Atlanta’s airport, and it ended with the dismantling of a large-scale drug trafficking organization and the seizure of hundreds of thousands of ecstasy pills,” said Acting U.S. Attorney John Horn Daniel R. Salter, the Special Agent in Charge of the DEA Atlanta Field Division said, “Whether the crimes being committed were public corruption, marriage fraud, or drug trafficking, the coordinated law enforcement response demonstrates how spirited law enforcement cooperation on all levels produce fruitful results. I would like to personally thank everyone who worked tirelessly to make this investigation a success.” The Department Homeland Security, Office of Inspector General, Special Agent in Charge James E. Ward said: “Today’s announcement sends a strong message, that we remain committed with our law enforcement partners to aggressively pursue such complex investigations. We are pleased with the overall outcome of this investigation; and we will remain vigilant in pursuing the prosecution of criminals, who brazenly defy federal law.” According to Acting U.S. Attorney Horn, the charges and other information presented in court: Beginning in late-2009, numerous federal, state, and international agencies conducted an extensive investigation into a corrupt federal and local law enforcement officer with ties to a major drug trafficking organization. The investigation led to the arrest, indictment, and conviction of more than 15 defendants. Federal Corruption Former Customs and Border Protection Officer Devon Samuels pleaded guilty to conspiring to launder drug money, attempting to bring guns onto an airplane, and conspiring to commit marriage fraud. The charges against Samuels centered around three undercover sting operations during which he smuggled drug money and guns through Hartsfield‑Jackson Atlanta International Airport. More specifically, on November 3, 2010, an undercover officer (posing as a drug money launderer) gave Samuels approximately $25,000 in money represented to be from the sale of drugs. By unlawfully using his badge to bypass security and avoid screening, Samuels smuggled the money through Atlanta’s airport and onto a plane bound for Jamaica. Once in Jamaica, Samuels delivered the cash to a Jamaican undercover police officer who was posing as an international drug trafficker. On November 19, 2010, another undercover officer gave Samuels over $50,000 in purported drug money. Samuels took the money, flew from Atlanta to Jamaica, and then delivered the money to Jamaican undercover police officers. While in Atlanta’s airport, Samuels unlawfully used his badge to bypass security and avoid being screened. Finally, on November 30, 2010, Samuels accepted five firearms and approximately $20,000 in alleged drug money from an undercover police officer. Samuels smuggled the firearms and money into the airport by using his badge to bypass security. Once inside the airport, Samuels gave the firearms and money to a second undercover officer who had explicitly told Samuels that she was going to transport the firearms and money to Arizona for a meeting with members of a Mexican drug cartel. On June 2, 2011, Devon Samuels, a/k/a “Smokey,” 49, of Stockbridge, Georgia, was sentenced to eight years in prison, followed by three years of supervised release. Marriage Fraud Beginning in November 2009, Samuels and his wife Keisha Jones (a former Delta Airlines employee) used Samuels’ intimate knowledge of immigration policies to commit marriage fraud. In that regard, Samuels and Jones taught Carlton Ferguson and Dahlia McLaren how to deceive U.S. immigration authorities into believing that Ferguson and McLaren’s sham marriage was genuine and legitimate. Samuels and Jones were also paid to falsely complete the immigration paperwork necessary for McLaren to obtain United States citizenship through her sham marriage to Ferguson. Samuels, Jones, Ferguson, and McLaren all pleaded guilty to marriage fraud conspiracy charges. After her plea, McLaren was stripped of her U.S. citizenship and removed from the United States to Jamaica. The following individuals were convicted on the marriage fraud indictment: On June 2, 2011, Samuels was sentenced to five years in prison, followed by three years of supervised release. On June 2, 2011, Keisha Jones, a/k/a Platinum, 34, of Stockbridge, Georgia, was sentenced six months of home confinement, three years of probation, and 150 hours of community service. On April 11, 2011, Carlton Ferguson, a/k/a “Fergie,” 39, of Decatur, Georgia, was sentenced to three years of probation and 150 hours of community service. On April 11, 2011, Dahlia McLaren, a/k/a “Dahlia McLaren Ferguson,” 34, formerly of Decatur, Georgia, was sentenced to three years of probation and was removed from the United States. Drug Trafficking In a parallel investigation beginning in February 2010, law enforcement officers started investigating a major drug trafficking organization operating in the Atlanta-metropolitan area and in other areas across the country. The organization was led by Jerome Bushay, Otis Henry, and Mark Tomlinson. Otis Henry was a major distributor of BZP (a drug similar to ecstasy) and marijuana who provided pills and marijuana to several lower-level drug dealers. Most notably, on October 1, 2010, law enforcement officers obtained a federal warrant to search Henry’s residence located in DeKalb County, Georgia. Inside the home, officers seized approximately 700,000 tablets of BZP—which was one of the largest domestic seizures of the drug in U.S. history. In particular, officers found the pills hidden all over the house, including in the walls of the house, behind insulation, under seat cushions, in crawl spaces, and stuffed into luggage. Officers also recovered a handgun, two pounds of marijuana, almost $40,000 in cash, and over 150 grams of methamphetamine from Henry’s residence. The street value of the pills was estimated at $2.8 million. After agents executed the search warrant, Henry fled from authorities and remained on the run for over a year. Ultimately, in January 2012, Henry was arrested in Tampa, Florida. Thereafter, agents searched Henry’s hotel room and recovered four pounds of marijuana and $3,300 in cash. Jerome Bushay also organized and supplied countless drug transactions sales, in addition to supervising several lower-level drug traffickers. In total, Bushay distributed over 185,000 pills. Bushay also used former Customs and Border Protection Officer Devon Samuels to transport his drug money through the airport. For example, on November 12, 2010, Bushay had Samuels smuggle $40,000 in drug money into Hartsfield-Jackson Airport. Inside the airport, Samuels used his badge to bypass airport security, which resulted in the bag not being screened. Thereafter, Samuels gave the bag to Bushay’s associate, who was destined for Texas. On December 15, 2010, law enforcement officers executed a coordinated take-down. As part of the take-down, agents executed a search warrant on Bushay’s home, where they recovered an arsenal of weapons and cache of drug paraphernalia. Specifically, agents recovered: (1) a Cobra 9mm pistol; (2) a .40 caliber semi-automatic pistol; (3) a Bushmaster Assault Rifle; (4) a .22 caliber rifle; (5) a Sturm Ruger Ranch Rifle with a scope; (6) a Glock semi-automatic pistol with a laser sight; (7) a Sten-Type 9mm machine gun; and (8) approximately 700 rounds of ammunition, including ballistic tipped and hollow point rounds. In addition to the weapons, agents found a narcotics ledger, an electronic money counter, two digital scales, and a baseball hat with “Customs and Border Protection” embroidered on it. Mark Tomlinson also distributed thousands of pills of MDMA and BZP, while simultaneously running Club Intrigue (a nightclub in DeKalb County). In addition, in April 2010, Tomlinson brokered a major marijuana deal, which resulted in the seizure of over $100,000. After law enforcement seized the drug money, Tomlinson and others devised a scheme to make it appear that the money was actually to pay musicians for his nightclub. On December 15, 2010, law enforcement officers searched Tomlinson’s home, where they recovered: (a) a Remington 12 gauge shotgun, (b) a Glock .40 caliber semi-automatic handgun, (c) a Taurus semiautomatic handgun, and (d) a drug ledger. In October 2014, after a one week trial, a federal jury convicted Tomlinson of conspiring to traffic MDMA, BZP, and marijuana. The following individuals were convicted on the drug trafficking indictment: Mark Tomlinson, a/k/a “Supa,” 40, of Stone Mountain, Georgia, was sentenced to 16 years in prison, followed by five years of supervised release. Jerome Bushay, a/k/a “Romey,” 36, of Norcross, Georgia, was sentenced to 15 years in prison, followed by five years of supervised release. Otis Henry, a/k/a “Wesley Johnson,” 44, of DeKalb County, Georgia, was sentenced to 14 years in prison, followed by five years of supervised release. Conrad Harvey, a/k/a “Fowley,” 45, Snellville, Georgia, was sentenced to 10 years, one month in prison, followed by three years of supervised release. Roshaun Hood, a/k/a “Shaun,” 33, of Atlanta, Georgia, was sentenced to nine years, three months in prison, followed by five years of supervised release. Dave Grant, a/k/a “David Clarke,” a/k/a “Scratchy,” 39, of Lithonia, Georgia; was sentenced to nine years in prison, followed by six years of supervised release. Nigel Edwards, a/k/a “Nigel the Barber,” 37, of Stone Mountain, Georgia, was sentenced to four years, four months in prison, followed by three years of supervised release. Ricardo Duncan, a/k/a “Ricky,” 32, of Lithonia, Georgia, was sentenced to four years in prison, followed by three years of supervised release. Damien Aarons, a/k/a “Damage,” 39, of Covington, Georgia, was sentenced to three years, nine months in prison, followed by three years of supervised release. Jermaine Campbell, a/k/a “Fatman,” 35, of DeKalb County, Georgia, was sentenced to three years, one month in prison, followed by three years of supervised release. Christopher Williams, a/k/a “Eric Washington,” “Bobby,” “Beagle,” and “Apachee,” 49, of Snellville, Georgia, was sentenced to three years in prison, followed by one year of supervised release. Local Corruption During the course of the operation, law enforcement authorities also learned that former DeKalb County Police Officer Donald Bristol abused his law enforcement position to help drug traffickers hide a stolen vehicle; that he unlawfully accessed his police computer; and that he lied to federal agents. More specifically, starting in April 2010, Bristol helped separately-charged defendants Christopher Dixon (currently a fugitive) and Ricardo Duncan hide the fact that the car they were driving was in fact a stolen vehicle. Bristol also misused his access to a sensitive law enforcement database to provide drug traffickers with confidential information, such as whether the drug traffickers had any open warrants. Finally, when questioned about his activities, Bristol made numerous false statements to federal agents. On October 18, 2011, Bristol, 45, of DeKalb County, Georgia was sentenced to one year and one day of incarceration, followed by three years of supervised release. This case was investigated by the Immigration Customs Enforcement (ICE); Drug Enforcement Administration; ICE—Office of Professional Responsibility; ICE—Office of Inspector General; ICE—Homeland Security Investigation; Jamaican Constabulary Force—Anti-Corruption Branch; DeKalb County Police Department; Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation; Federal Bureau of Investigation; United States Marshal’s Service; Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; and U.S. Department of State—Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs. Assistant United States Attorneys Jeffrey W. Davis, L. Skye Davis, and Dahil Goss prosecuted the case. The U.S. Attorney’s Office in Atlanta recommends parents and children learn about the dangers of drugs at the following website: www.justthinktwice.com.
corruption ALBUQUERQUE—Yesterday a federal grand jury sitting in Albuquerque, N.M., returned a superseding indictment that adds new charges against a former Deputy of the Colfax County Sheriff’s Office previously charged with a drug trafficking offense. In addition to the original drug trafficking offense, the superseding indictment charges Vidal Sandoval, 45, of Cimarron, N.M., with two theft of government property offenses. Sandoval was arrested by the FBI and the New Mexico State Police on March 13, 2015, on an indictment alleging that on Feb. 28, 2015, Sandoval aided and abetted an attempt to possess cocaine with intent to distribute in Colfax County, N.M. The indictment included forfeiture provisions seeking a money judgment in the amount of at least $19,500.00, the proceeds Sandoval allegedly obtained as a result of his unlawful conduct. The two new theft of government charges in the superseding indictment allege that Sandoval stole money belonging to the FBI on Dec. 15, 2014 and Jan. 25, 2015. According to affidavits submitted in support of court-approved search warrants that were executed following Sandoval’s arrest, on those two dates, Sandoval allegedly stole money from undercover FBI agents who were posing as drug dealers during two traffic stops. During the Dec. 15, 2014 traffic stop, Sandoval allegedly stole $7,500.00 from the undercover agents, and during the Jan. 25, 2015 traffic stop, he allegedly stole $2,000.00 from them. At the time of the offenses charged in the superseding indictment, Sandoval was a deputy of the Colfax County Sheriff’s Office. Sandoval resigned following his arrest. Sandoval was released from custody on conditions of release, including pretrial supervision, pending trial which currently is scheduled for June 15, 2015. If convicted on the drug trafficking charge in the superseding indictment, Sandoval faces a mandatory minimum five years and a maximum of 40 years in federal prison. If convicted on the theft of government property charges, Sandoval faces a statutory maximum penalty of ten years in federal prison on each of the two charges. Charges in indictments are merely accusations and defendants are presumed innocent unless found guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. This case was investigated by the Santa Fe and Albuquerque offices of the FBI and the New Mexico State Police with assistance from the Colfax County Sheriff’s Office. Assistant U.S. Attorney Sean J. Sullivan is prosecuting the case.
corruption SAN DIEGO—San Diego attorney Todd Macaluso, whose practice included representing plaintiffs in personal injury lawsuits, pleaded guilty today to defrauding his clients and investors by entering into funding agreements that put his clients’ personal injury cases up as collateral without their knowledge or consent. As part of his guilty plea, Macaluso admitted that he forged the signatures of his clients, and used forged notary stamps and signatures, in order to convince potential investors to advance him millions of dollars. According to court records, Macaluso funded his personal injury law practice by entering into “funding agreements” with various investors. Under these agreements, investors advanced Macaluso money in exchange for the right to collect a portion of his clients’ recoveries in the future. Although clients had to consent to the collateralization of their lawsuits in order for these transfers to be valid, Macaluso concealed these arrangements from many of his clients and forged their signatures on the financing documents. To conceal his scheme, Macaluso also forged the signatures and stamps of notary publics who purportedly witnessed the executions of these legal documents, but who (like his client) had no knowledge of the arrangements. United States Attorney Laura E. Duffy commented, “Individuals who have suffered a personal injury should not have to worry about being victimized by their own advocate. The defendant’s conviction should be a stark reminder that attorneys and other fiduciaries will be prosecuted if they fraudulently misuse the privileges society has given them.” FBI Special Agent in Charge Eric S. Birnbaum commented, “Mr. Macaluso betrayed his clients’ trust by putting his clients’ personal injury recoveries on the hook without their knowledge or consent. The FBI is committed to maintaining the integrity of our justice system by aggressively investigating those individuals that violate their fiduciary responsibilities through fraudulent schemes that victimize the American public.” Macaluso is scheduled to be sentenced on July 13, 2015, at 9:00 a.m. before U.S. District Court Judge Roger T. Benitez, at which time he will be ordered to pay restitution to all of his victims. DEFENDANT TODD E. MACALUSO Age: 52 Rancho Santa Fe, California Case Number: 15cr0948-BEN SUMMARY OF CHARGE Title 18, United States Code, Section 1343—Wire Fraud. Maximum penalties: 20 years in prison, $250,000 fine, term of supervised release of three years, restitution, forfeiture, and $100 special assessment. AGENCY Federal Bureau of Investigation
corruption DALLAS—A Dallas woman, who worked for the Dallas County Community Supervision and Corrections Department, pleaded guilty in federal court today to a drug distribution conspiracy offense, announced Acting U.S. Attorney John Parker of the Northern District of Texas. Selena Ball, 30, of DeSoto, Texas, pleaded guilty before U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul D. Stickney to one count of conspiring to possess with intent to distribute a controlled substance (cocaine). She faces a maximum statutory penalty of 20 years in federal prison and a $1 million fine, and she will remain on bond pending sentencing, which is set for July 30, 2015. Ball and 10 co-defendants were charged in a November 2014 indictment with various felony offenses, including conspiracy, drug trafficking, kidnapping, firearms offenses, witness intimidation/tampering, and records destruction, stemming from their involvement in a violent drug trafficking operation (DTO) that operated in South Dallas and the Dallas County Jail. According to documents filed in her case, from September 23, 2013, to May 27, 2014, Ball was an Electronic Monitoring Officer for the Dallas County Community Supervision and Corrections Department. As part of her duties, she was assigned to monitor an inmate, co-defendant Patrick D. Lenard, 33. Ball and Lenard were involved in a romantic relationship despite her position and despite the conflict this relationship created. Lenard convinced Ball to alter, modify or fail to report violations of his conditions of release. For example, Lenard was required to limit his travel to certain areas within Dallas to avoid contact with co-conspirators. Part of Ball’s responsibility was to review and identify locations Lenard visited as reflected in the GPS records from his monitoring bracelet. Ball, however, failed to report violations of these conditions by Lenard. In fact, Lenard violated his conditions of release by approaching, confronting and attempting to intimidate coconspirators and witnesses to a kidnaping. From November 26, 2012, to approximately November 18, 2014, Lenard conducted and managed drug-trafficking activities form his jail cell in the Dallas County Jail. During that time, he called his co-conspirators, including Ball. On multiple occasions, Lenard and Ball had phone conversations regarding illegal narcotics transactions and money obtained from those transactions. Lenard instructed Ball to hide the drug proceeds, and in one conversation, Ball actively counted the drug proceeds. On some of the phone calls, other individuals were conferenced in and Lenard, Ball and the other individual would discuss illegal naracotics transactions and money obtained from those transactions. Lenard, and another one of his girlfriends, Lashundra Rogers, 35, of Mesquite, Texas, are set for trial on July 13, 2015. Other defendants charged in the conspiracy, including Juaquai Gregg, Joshua Smart, Shuntocqua Shine, Brandon Florence, a/k/a “Beetlejuice,” Christina Staton, Rory Minafee and Bonner Ray Tutson have pleaded guilty to their respective roles and are awaiting sentencing. Another defendant, Rodney Wynn, 34, of Kaufman, Texas, was added to the State of Texas’s most wanted list in September 2014 and remains a fugitive. The investigation is being led by the Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS), the Drug Enforcement Administration, the FBI and the Dallas Police Department. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Errin Martin and P. J. Meitl are prosecuting.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—Greg Sullivan, 50, of Philadelphia, PA, was sentenced today to 27 months in prison for conspiracy to maliciously damage property by means of fire, and Hobbs Act Extortion. Sullivan pleaded guilty on September 23, 2014. He participated in the Grays Avenue arson and the attempted arson in Malvern. In addition to the prison term, United States District Court before the Honorable Michael Baylson ordered restitution of $10,306.80—half of which must be paid within 30 days—three years of supervised release and a $100 special assessment. He has 30 days to report to prison. The case was investigated jointly by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Department of Labor Office of Inspector General, with assistance provided by the Philadelphia Police Department Corruption Task Force, East Whiteland Township Police Department, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, and the Employee Benefit Security Administration. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Robert Livermore with legal assistance provided by Gerald Toner, Acting Deputy Chief for Labor-Management Racketeering, Organized Crime and Gang Section at the Department of Justice.
corruption ST. LOUIS, MO—The mayor of Pine Lawn, Missouri, SYLVESTER CALDWELL, has pled guilty to charges involving the extortion of cash payments from the owner of a local towing company and from the owner of a Pine Lawn convenience store. According to court documents, from December 2013 through April 2014, special agents with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (“FBI”) were conducting an ongoing public corruption investigation into the activities of defendant Sylvester Caldwell (“the defendant”), who was Mayor of the City of Pine Lawn, Missouri. As Mayor, the defendant exercised authority and control over which towing company provided the primary towing service for the City of Pine Lawn. During the public corruption investigation, the owner of a towing company, who was cooperating with the FBI, met with the defendant on several occasions for the purpose of making cash payments to the defendant at the defendant’s request, in order to remain as the primary towing service for Pine Lawn. On at least five occasions, the defendant met with the tow company owner at various locations within the Eastern District of Missouri and accepted cash payments, which the defendant had requested in exchange for continuing to give work to the towing company. These payments included the following: December 20, 2013-$300; December 30, 2013-$200; January 16, 2014-$300; February 21, 2014-$500; and March 27, 2014—$300. At times, the defendant used coded language when requesting the cash payments. For example, the defendant commanded the tow company owner to place “green Mountain Dew in a cup,” which was code for directing that the cash be placed in a disposable cup and handed to the defendant. The defendant also induced payments by threatening to use a competing towing company. From at least February 2013 through September 2014, Mayor Caldwell also extorted numerous payments of money from the owner of a convenience store known as Pine Lawn Market. Defendant attempted to disguise the payments as donations to the City of Pine Lawn. The owner paid the money to defendant out of fear that defendant would make trouble for the store. The owner of the store also allowed defendant to take goods from the store out of fear that his business could suffer economic harm if he refused. Caldwell, Florissant, Missouri, pleaded guilty to one count of Attempted Extortion and one count of Extortion before United States District Judge Catherine D. Perry. Sentencing has been set for July 7, 2015. Each of these charges carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and/or fines up to $250,000. In determining the actual sentence, a judge is required to consider the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines, which provide recommended sentencing ranges. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorneys Reginald Harris and Anthony Franks are handling the case for the U.S. Attorney’s Office.
corruption ALBUQUERQUE—Angus Kelly McGinty, 51, a former Texas state district court judge in Bexar County, Texas, pleaded guilty today to an honest services wire fraud charge and admitted depriving the State of Texas and citizens of Bexar County of his honest services by soliciting and accepting bribes intended to influence his judicial decisions. McGinty’s guilty plea was announced by Damon P. Martinez, U.S. Attorney for the District of New Mexico, and Christopher H. Combs, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI’s San Antonio Division. In announcing the guilty plea, U.S. Attorney Damon P. Martinez said, “Independent and impartial judges are essential to the proper administration of justice. The Department of Justice is committed to rooting out corruption and maintaining confidence in public institutions. This case should serve as a reminder to those who occupy positions of public trust that they must act with integrity and in conformity with the highest ethical standards. Individuals who abuse positions of public trust for private gain will be held accountable.” “Despite Judge McGinty’s obligation to fairly and impartially carry out his duties as an elected judge, he engaged in serious criminal activity,” said FBI Special Agent in Charge Christopher H. Combs. “Regardless of whether someone is a judge or any other public official, the FBI is committed to investigating and exposing public corruption.” McGinty initially was charged with conspiracy to commit federal programs bribery, federal programs bribery, extortion under color of official right, and honest services wire fraud in an indictment filed in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Texas in June 2014. In Feb. 2015, a five-count superseding indictment was filed charging McGinty with conspiracy to commit honest service wire fraud, three counts of honest services wire fraud, and extortion under color of official right. At the time of the events underlying the charges in the indictments, McGinty was a state district court judge in the criminal division of the 144th Judicial District Court in Bexar County, Texas. According to the superseding indictment, between Jan. 2013 and Sept. 2013, McGinty solicited and accepted bribes from an attorney who appeared before him in exchange for favorable rulings for the attorney’s clients. McGinty resigned from the bench on Feb. 14, 2014. According to court documents, from Jan. 2013 through Sept. 2013, McGinty solicited and accepted bribes from Alberto Acevedo, Jr., an attorney in San Antonio, in exchange for favorable judicial rulings that benefited Acevedo and his clients. Acevedo’s bribes to McGinty included cash, car repairs, arranging the sale of McGinty’s vehicle, and registering a vehicle purchased by McGinty. In exchange, McGinty provided the favorable judicial rulings requested by Acevedo, including lenient sentences and less restrictive conditions of release for Acevedo’s clients. According to the indictments, McGinty received gifts, payments and other things of value totaling more than $6,655.00 from Acevedo. Today McGinty entered a guilty plea to Count 3 of the superseding indictment. In his plea agreement, McGinty proffered the following statements in support of his guilty plea: On or about January 1, 2011, I assumed office as judge of the 144th Judicial District Court, located in Bexar County, Texas. During my term of service as judge of the 144th Judicial District Court, I knowingly participated in a scheme to defraud the State of Texas and citizens of Bexar County, Texas of their right to my honest services inasmuch as I solicited and accepted things of value from Alberto Acevedo, Jr., including vehicle repairs to my two Mercedes Benz, my 1992 Mercedes Benz 300CE and my 2001 Mercedes Benz S430. I accepted these benefits knowing that the purpose behind them was to influence me to exercise my official discretion as judge of the 144th Judicial District Court in favor of Mr. Acevedo and his clients. From at least January 2013 to September 2013, Mr. Acevedo paid for repairs and services to my two Mercedes. I took steps to cover up my dealing with Mr. Acevedo by failing to report the benefits I had received from him on my Personnel Statement for 2013. On May 20, 2013 at 7:02 p.m., I sent Mr. Acevedo a text message to make arrangements to drop off my 2011 Mercedes Benz S430 at his law firm so that he could take it to his mechanic for repairs. That text message traveled in interstate commerce. Under the terms of the plea agreement, McGinty will be sentenced to 24 months in federal prison followed by a term of supervised release to be determined by the court. McGinty’s sentencing hearing is scheduled for July 15, 2015. Acevedo pled guilty on March 17, 2014, to a felony information charging him with bribery involving a program receiving federal funds. In entering his guilty plea, Acevedo admitted that he corruptly influenced a state court judge by giving him things of value. In his plea agreement, Acevedo admitted giving gifts, payments and other things of value totaling more than $6,655.00 to the state court judge in exchange for favorable judicial rulings that benefitted him and his clients. At sentencing, Acevedo faces a maximum statutory penalty of ten years in prison and a $250,000.00 fine. Acevedo is released on bond pending his sentencing hearing, which has yet to be scheduled. U.S. Attorney Damon P. Martinez praised the investigative work of the San Antonio Division of the FBI. The prosecution of this case in federal court in San Antonio, Texas, is being handled by Special Attorneys Mark A. Saltman and Brock E. Taylor of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of New Mexico. The U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Western District of Texas is recused.
corruption WASHINGTON—The company owner, a top executive, and their company, Quality Egg LLC, were sentenced today in federal district court in Sioux City, Iowa, the Department of Justice announced. Austin “Jack” DeCoster, 81, of Turner, Maine, who owned Quality Egg, was sentenced to serve three months in prison to be followed by one year of supervised release, and fined $100,000. His son, Peter DeCoster, 51, of Clarion, Iowa, who was Quality Egg’s chief operating officer, was also sentenced to serve three months in prison to be followed by one year of supervised release, and fined $100,000. Quality Egg was sentenced to pay a fine of $6.79 million and placed on probation for three years. All three defendants were ordered to make restitution in the total amount of $83,008.19. Quality Egg also agreed to forfeit $10,000 as part of its plea agreement with the government. The defendants were sentenced by U.S. District Court Judge Mark W. Bennett in the Northern District of Iowa. On June 3, 2014, Quality Egg, an egg production company with operations in Wright County, Iowa, pleaded guilty to one count of bribery of a public official, one count of introducing a misbranded food into interstate commerce with intent to defraud and one count of introducing adulterated food into interstate commerce. Jack and Peter DeCoster each pleaded guilty to one count of introducing adulterated food into interstate commerce. In plea agreements, the company and the father and son admitted that the company’s shell eggs were adulterated in that they contained a poisonous and deleterious substance, Salmonella Enteriditis, which may have rendered the eggs injurious to health. During the spring and summer of 2010, adulterated eggs produced and distributed by Quality Egg were linked to approximately 1,939 reported consumer illnesses in multiple states—a nationwide outbreak of salmonellosis that led to the August 2010 recall of millions of eggs produced by the defendants. “The message this prosecution and sentence sends is a stern one to anyone tempted to place profits over people’s welfare,” said the U.S. Attorney Kevin W. Techau of the Northern District of Iowa. “Corporate officials are on notice. If you sell contaminated food you will be held responsible for your conduct. Claims of ignorance or ‘I delegated the responsibility to someone else’ will not shield them from criminal responsibility.” “American consumers deserve to feel secure that the eggs they eat are safe and produced in sanitary conditions,” said Acting Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer of the Justice Department’s Civil Division. “The Department of Justice will pursue and prosecute those whose criminal conduct compromises the safety of our food supply.” “Food manufacturers have a responsibility to produce and sell food that is safe for consumers to eat,” said Dr. Stephen Ostroff, U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Acting Commissioner. “Eggs are commonly consumed nationwide, both on their own and as ingredients in other foods. When manufacturers fail to produce safe food, the FDA will take action to protect public health.” As noted in the government’s memorandum regarding sentencing, Quality Egg personnel had, for years, disregarded food safety standards and practices and misled major customers, including Walmart, about the company’s food safety practices. In the memorandum filed with the court, the government noted that since 2006, the company had commissioned tests to detect Salmonella Enteriditis in its layer barns and in the organs of its layer hens, that the results came back positive on 47 percent of the days tested, and that the frequency of positive test results grew in the months leading up to the August 2010 recall. As part of the memorandum, the government also argued that the evidence indicated that Quality Egg personnel took steps to conceal from regulators and customers the company’s failures to follow food safety standards and practices, that Quality Egg created food safety plans that included inaccurate claims about the company’s biosecurity and pest control practices, and that Quality Egg falsified documents for the food safety audits required by various customers. Quality Egg pleaded guilty to bribing an inspector of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to release eggs that had been retained for quality issues. Quality Egg acknowledged that, on at least two occasions in 2010, its employees gave a cash bribe to a USDA inspector. The USDA inspector’s job responsibilities included inspecting shell eggs at one or more of Quality Egg’s production facilities in Iowa. Quality Egg admitted that its employees provided the bribe to the USDA inspector (now deceased) in an attempt to corruptly influence the inspector to exercise his authority to release pallets of retained eggs for sale without re-processing the eggs as required by law and USDA standards. The eggs had been retained or “red tagged” for failing to meet minimum USDA quality grade standards. Former Quality Egg employee Tony Wasmund, 64, of Willmar, Minnesota, pleaded guilty in September 2012 to one count of conspiracy to bribe a public official, sell restricted eggs with intent to defraud and introduce misbranded food into interstate commerce with intent to defraud and mislead. Wasmund is scheduled to be sentenced by U.S. District Court Judge W. Bennett on May 15 at 8:30 a.m. Quality Egg also pleaded guilty to introducing misbranded eggs into interstate commerce with the intent to defraud. As part of its plea agreement, Quality Egg admitted that, beginning no later than January 2006 and continuing through Aug. 12, 2010, its employees affixed labels to egg shipments that indicated false expiration dates with the intent to mislead state regulators and retail egg customers regarding the true age of the eggs. Quality Egg acknowledged that there were a number of ways that the company mislabeled older eggs with newer processing and expiration dates prior to shipping the eggs to customers in California, Arizona and other states. Sometimes Quality Egg personnel did not put any processing or corresponding expiration dates on the eggs when they were processed. The eggs would be kept in storage for several days or up to several weeks. Then, just prior to shipping the eggs, Quality Egg personnel labeled the eggs with processing dates that were false in that the dates were more recent than the dates that the eggs had actually been processed and with corresponding false expiration dates. The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Peter Deegan of the Northern District of Iowa and Trial Attorneys Lisa Hsiao and Christopher Parisi of the Civil Division’s Consumer Protection Branch. They were assisted by Associate Chief Counsel Michael Varrone of the Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of General Counsel’s Food and Drug Division. The case was investigated by FDA’s Office of Criminal Investigations, the USDA’s Office of Inspector General and the FBI.
corruption BEAUMONT, TX—Three former Beaumont Independent School District employees have been sentenced for federal violations in the Eastern District of Texas, announced U.S. Attorney John M. Bales today. Daryl Glenn Johnson, 44, of Beaumont, pleaded guilty on Dec. 4, 2014, to conspiracy and was sentenced to 33 months in federal prison today by U.S. District Judge Ron Clark. Erin Gipson Johnson, 38, of Beaumont, and Kailyn DeShondra Pete, 25, of Beaumont, each pleaded guilty on Dec. 4, 2014 to fraud upon programs receiving federal funds. They were both sentenced to five years’ probation today by Judge Clark. Daryl Johnson was ordered to pay $284,039.42 in restitution. He is jointly and severally liable with Erin Johnson for $193,998.37, and jointly and severally liable with Kailyn Pete for $90,041.05. According to information presented in court, from July 2009 through June, 2012, Daryl Johnson, who was employed as the warehouse supervisor for the school district, first his wife, Erin Johnson, and then a friend, Kailyn Pete, placed on the BISD payroll as temporary employees. However, neither Erin Johnson nor Kailyn Pete ever actually worked as a BISD warehouse employee. Daryl Johnson had the autonomy to hire temporary warehouse employees on his own, and the authority to determine how many hours they would be paid, and could do so unilaterally and without the authorization or direct knowledge of anyone else. Daryl Johnson used this authority to fraudulently verify that both Erin Johnson and Kailyn Pete worked the hours indicated on their respective timesheets, which included extensive amounts of overtime when he knew that they in fact had not worked any of the hours. From July 2009 through May 2011, Erin Johnson was paid $193,998.37. During the timeframe of June 2010 through May 2012, Kailyn Pete was paid $90,041.05. This case was investigated by the joint Task Force with the Jefferson County District Attorney’s Office, the Beaumont Police Department, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation and prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Joe Batte and Christopher T. Tortorice.
corruption In Del Rio this morning, 62-year-old Val Verde County Precinct 1 Commissioner Ramiro Ramon surrendered to authorities based on federal charges alleging that he accepted bribes totaling more than $68,000 in exchange for actions performed in his official capacity. That announcement was made today by Acting United States Attorney Richard L. Durbin, Jr., FBI Special Agent in Charge Christopher Combs and IRS-Criminal Investigation Special Agent in Charge William Cotter. A 23–count federal grand jury indictment, returned on Wednesday and unsealed today, charges Ramon with nine counts of wire fraud and theft of honest services; three counts of bribery; seven counts of Travel Act violations (use of interstate communication facilities to aid in racketeering); and four counts of making a false statement on an income tax return. The indictment alleges that since November 2005, the defendant solicited and accepted bribes from three different entities in exchange for favorable official action including casting votes, arranging meetings between the entities and City of Del Rio officials, and advocating for the approval of measures which would benefit the entities and their Val Verde County real estate project called “the Ranch.” Specifically, Ramon allegedly accepted close to $50,000 in payments from a San Antonio developer; approximately $9,300 from a group of New Braunfels business owners; and $5,000 from a California businessman. According to the indictment, Ramon also took steps to hide, conceal and cover up his affiliation with the entities including the failure to report payments he received on his electronically filed federal income tax returns for 2011 and 2012. The indictment also alleges that Ramon made false statements on his income tax returns in which he underreported his total income to the IRS for calendar years 2008-2011. Upon conviction, Ramon faces up to 20 years in federal prison for wire fraud; up to ten years’ imprisonment for bribery; up to five years for violating the Travel Act; and, up to three years’ imprisonment for making a false statement on an income tax return. Ramon, who has served as Val Verde County Precinct 1 Commissioner since 2003, had his initial appearance this morning in Del Rio before United States Magistrate Judge Collis White and was released on bond. This indictment resulted from an investigation conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI). Assistant United States Attorneys Jay Hulings, William R. Harris and Goran Krnaich are prosecuting this case on behalf of the government. It is important to note that an indictment is merely a charge and should not be considered as evidence of guilt. The defendant is presumed innocent until proven guilty in a court of law.
corruption CHICAGO—A Melrose Park detective was arrested yesterday for allegedly attempting to possess with intent to distribute five kilograms or more of cocaine and possession of a firearm in furtherance of a drug trafficking crime. The defendant, GREGORY SALVI, was arrested following an investigation by the Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Salvi, 42, of Melrose Park, was charged by criminal complaint that was unsealed following his initial appearance today. He appeared today before Magistrate Judge Jeffery Cole in U.S. District Court and is scheduled for a detention hearing on Tuesday, April 14, at 10:15 a.m. As set forth in the complaint affidavit, on April 9, 2015, Salvi attempted to possess with intent to distribute five kilograms or more of cocaine, which he expected to deliver to the informants in return for money. The complaint further charges that Salvi was carrying a loaded Glock .45 caliber handgun and driving a police vehicle at the time he attempted to obtain cocaine. Also according to the complaint affidavit, the defendant used his position as a law enforcement officer with the Melrose Park Police Department in order to unlawfully acquire narcotics from the Melrose Park Police Department. It is alleged in the complaint that Salvi twice stole narcotics held in evidence by the Melrose Park Police Department, which he then distributed to two individuals who, unbeknownst to Salvi, were cooperating with law enforcement. Specifically, in November 2014, Salvi distributed heroin to a cooperating individual. Then, in December 2014, Salvi distributed cocaine to a cooperating individual. According to statements made by the Salvi, on one occasion Salvi used his position as a law enforcement officer to take real narcotics from the police evidence storage, which Salvi replaced with fake narcotics, and Salvi planned to sell the real narcotics to narcotics traffickers. Also, according to the complaint affidavit, during recorded conversations in January and February 2015, Salvi offered to sell two kilograms of cocaine to a cooperating individual that were being tested by a local laboratory for the police department. During that same time period, Salvi offered to procure firearms for a cooperating individual, and offered to help remove the firearms’ serial numbers. The arrest and complaint were announced by Zachary T. Fardon, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois and Robert J. Holley, Special Agent-in-Charge of the Chicago Office of the FBI. The Melrose Park Police Department is fully cooperating in the investigation. If convicted of both charges in the complaint, intent to distribute and possession of a firearm in furtherance of a drug trafficking crime, the defendant could be sentenced to a mandatory minimum sentence of 15 years’ imprisonment, a maximum of life imprisonment, and a maximum fine of $10 million. If convicted, the Court must impose a reasonable sentence under federal statutes and the advisory United States Sentencing Guidelines. The government is being represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Patrick Otlewski. A complaint contains merely charges and is not evidence of guilt. The defendant is presumed innocent and is entitled to a fair trial at which the government has the burden of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption PORTLAND, OR—Billy J. Williams, Acting U.S. Attorney for the District of Oregon, today announced the unsealing of a criminal Information charging George R. Levey, 58, of Tarpon Springs, Florida, with honest services wire fraud in connection with Levey allegedly bribing Ellis McCoy, the former City of Portland Bureau of Transportation Manager in charge of Portland’s smart parking meter program. The Information alleges that from 2002 through July 2011, Levey, formerly an executive with Schlumberger Industries, Inc. and later the owner and president of Cale Parking Systems, USA, Inc., bribed McCoy with golf trips, gambling trips, vacation trips, $56,675 in phony consulting fees paid to EKM Consulting, a business McCoy set up to receive and disguise these payments, and the promised payment of $137,100 when McCoy ended his employment with the City of Portland. It is further alleged that Levey bribed McCoy so McCoy would speak favorably about Levey’s companies to other cities interested in buying smart parking meters. Additionally, McCoy would disclose to Levey information he learned from counterparts in other cities that would help Levey’s companies secure smart parking meter contracts with those cities, and would help Levey’s companies secure, keep, and expand contracts to supply smart parking meters to the City of Portland. In return for the bribes, McCoy gave Levey advice about how to draft contract proposals to be submitted to the City of Portland, disclosed to Levey internal deliberations of the Portland City Council and the Portland Bureau of Transportation, and testified before the Portland City Council in favor of awarding contracts to Levey’s companies. “The citizens of every city in Oregon are entitled to honesty and transparency every time public money is spent,” said Acting U.S. Attorney Billy J. Williams. “The bribing of public officials involved in contracting corrupts the contracting process, harms honest contractors and citizens, and diminishes public trust in local government. This office, working with its law enforcement partners, makes it a priority to aggressively investigate and prosecute those who bribe public officials and the public officials themselves.” Ellis McCoy has pleaded guilty to accepting bribes from previously undisclosed contractors and is scheduled to be sentenced on May 27, 2015. This case was investigated by the FBI and the IRS-Criminal Investigation Division. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Seth D. Uram.
corruption ATLANTA—Tyrone Brooks, Sr., has pleaded guilty to charges that he misappropriated almost $1 million in charitable funds from Universal Humanities, a charity he founded in 1990, and the Georgia Association of Black Elected Officials (GABEO). From the mid-1990s through 2012, Brooks solicited contributions from individuals and corporate donors to combat illiteracy and fund other charitable causes, but then used the money to pay personal expenses for himself and his family. “Through two charitable organizations he led, Representative Brooks raised over one million dollars for the causes of illiteracy, crime and voter disenfranchisement that plague our disadvantaged communities, especially ones in poor and rural areas,” said Acting U.S. Attorney John Horn. “Sadly, Representative Brooks misappropriated nearly all of the money to pay personal expenses for himself and his family. By diverting these funds, he deprived those communities from receiving the literacy training and other assistance that they so desperately needed.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated: “People have a right to expect honesty and integrity from their elected officials. The FBI’s Public Corruption program plays a vital role in ensuring that any such departures from the expected honesty and integrity of public officials that result in violations of the law will be investigated. The FBI launched its investigation in this matter based on information and facts that indicated that a State elected official was using undue influence for personal gain. The FBI, in conjunction with IRS-CI, followed those facts throughout this investigation, which led to this guilty plea of former State Representative Tyrone Brooks.” “Mr. Brooks exploited his position as representative and director of Universal Humanities and GABEO for his own personal financial gain, which came at the expense of the organizations and people he was trusted to serve,” stated Special Agent in Charge, Veronica F. Hyman-Pillot, IRS Criminal Investigation. “In addition, Brooks stole money from the American taxpayers by failing to report the income and pay taxes on the money he diverted.” According to Acting U.S. Attorney Horn, the charges and other information presented in court: Universal Humanities Scheme The government presented evidence at the plea hearing that from at least 1995 through 2012, Brooks solicited contributions for Universal Humanities from corporate and individual donors purportedly to combat illiteracy in disadvantaged communities in Georgia and across the southeastern United States, eventually raising more than $800,000. Donors included the Coca-Cola Company, Georgia Pacific Company, Northside Hospital, and others who gave smaller amounts. Brooks made specific false representations in his written solicitations about the work that Universal Humanities was doing to combat illiteracy; he described how the donated funds would be used, claiming that Universal Humanities had established literacy programs, conducted workshops, and tutored and mentored students. He also falsely claimed that Universal Humanities used a staff and operated under the leadership of a board of directors. In reality, Brooks did not use the donations to promote and address literacy in Georgia or elsewhere, or to retain a staff, occupy office space, fund workshops, hire instructors, or conduct programs attended by students. Instead, Brooks used the money to pay personal expenses for himself and members of his family, including home repairs, furniture, lawn service, life insurance, entertainment, personal credit card expenses, utility bills, food and clothing, dry cleaning, electronic equipment, jewelry, and payments on personal loans, among other personal expenses. Brooks generally accomplished the diversion of funds by depositing the solicited donations into a bank account that he established in the name of Universal Humanities, then almost immediately transferring the funds to a personal account, from which he paid personal expenses. At times, Brooks paid personal expenses directly from the Universal Humanities account. Contrary to Brooks’ representations to donors, Universal Humanities never had a functioning board of directors. The individuals listed on the solicitations and incorporation documents were unaware that Brooks had identified them as Universal Humanities board members, and most had never even heard of the organization. Brooks represented in a 1999 solicitation that Universal Humanities had been “so successful” in Georgia that it was expanding its programs to other states in the Southeast, and expected to have a projected budget of $500,000. In truth, Universal Humanities did not have an operational literacy program inside or outside of Georgia, nor did it have a projected budget of $500,000. Brooks represented that Universal Humanities’ literacy program, which Brooks called “Visions of Literacy,” consisted of a host of “outlets” created to increase literacy and included activities such as seminars, workshops, tutoring, mentoring, and rallies. Brooks further claimed that Universal Humanities and its “staff had over 40 years’ experience in assisting U.S. communities through a variety of efforts,” and that 10,000 people would be the direct beneficiaries of the literacy program. In fact, Universal Humanities and Brooks did not operate a functional literacy program, did not host the literacy activities described in the solicitation, or did not have a staff. Brooks represented in a 2011 solicitation that the Visions of Literacy program conducted monthly workshops, seminars, and advocacy outreach activities, and that the solicited funds would be used to hire retired teachers and administrators as “educational consultants” to gain targeted results. Instead, Brooks spent the funds donated in response to this solicitation on payments for personal credit card charges, personal loan payments, utility bills, and a $500 check to a family member as a Christmas gift. Unbeknownst to GABEO, Brooks represented in a 2011 solicitation that GABEO was a “sister organization” to Universal Humanities and that GABEO was committed to the “growth and advancement of Universal Humanities.” Brooks falsely claimed that GABEO members spoke in public forums to implement and promote Universal Humanities’ programs; that GABEO members taught at Universal Humanities meetings and classes “alongside” Universal Humanities community organizers; and that GABEO members served on the Universal Humanities’ board of directors, steering committee, fundraising committee, and program management committees, though the purported committees were nonexistent. As a result of Brooks’ misappropriation, the intended beneficiaries of the donated funds did not receive the needed literacy training or assistance. GABEO Scheme The government presented evidence at the plea hearing that Brooks also diverted charitable donations he solicited on behalf of GABEO and used much of the money to pay personal expenses for himself and his family. GABEO is an organization of state, county, and municipal elected officials which promotes crime prevention, voter registration, literacy and economic empowerment initiatives. Brooks solicited contributions for GABEO from corporations, organizations and individuals. When Brooks was elected as GABEO’s President in 1993, the organization already maintained an official bank account at a local bank. This account was administered by GABEO’s Treasurer, and disbursements required two signatures by GABEO Board members. In December 1997, Brooks secretly opened a second GABEO bank account at a different bank. Brooks set himself up as the sole signatory on this account, and had the account statements sent to his address rather than the address of the GABEO Treasurer. Brooks then deposited the donations that he solicited on behalf of GABEO into this undisclosed account, and used much of these funds to pay personal expenses for himself and his relatives. Between 2002 and 2012, businesses, civic, religious groups and individuals contributed approximately $300,000 to GABEO through Brooks, which he then deposited into the undisclosed GABEO account. Brooks misappropriated donations that he solicited on behalf of GABEO from corporations, local teacher unions, small business owners, and individual donors – all of whom relied on Brooks’ assurances that the contributions were intended to further GABEO’s community activities. The GABEO Board was unaware of this activity and did not approve these transactions. Brooks misappropriated the GABEO funds in much the same manner as the Universal Humanities funds. Brooks deposited funds he solicited on behalf of GABEO into the undisclosed GABEO account, then transferred the funds to his personal account, from which he paid his personal expenses. While Brooks utilized some of the GABEO donations to pay expenses related to GABEO’s annual meetings, he utilized much of the GABEO funds for personal expenses. During the time that Brooks acted as GABEO’s President, a variety of charitable groups, companies and individuals made donations to GABEO through Brooks. These donors relied on Brooks’ representations that GABEO would use the contributions to defray the costs of the organization’s annual meetings and convention, and to support GABEO’s programs. Brooks made specific false representations to donors about how the solicited funds would be used, claiming that the funds would be used to cover the expenses of annual GABEO meetings, support GABEO crime prevention and child hunger initiatives, voter registration, felon rehabilitation initiatives, and literacy programs. Donors included Coca Cola, Georgia Power, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and others. Instead, Brooks deposited these funds into the undisclosed GABEO account that he controlled and then transferred the money to his personal account, ultimately using most of the contributions to pay personal expenses. By misappropriating GABEO donations for his personal use, Brooks benefitted himself at the expense of both GABEO and the communities most in need of the literacy, crime prevention and voter registration programs for which the funds were intended. False Tax Returns Charges Finally, Brooks pleaded guilty to tax fraud and, in so doing, he admitted he substantially underreported his income to the IRS for the 2011 tax year. Despite Brooks’ misappropriation of Universal Humanities and GABEO funds, his tax return for the 2011 tax year falsely reported a salary of only approximately $35,000 annually. Brooks, 68, of Atlanta, Georgia, pleaded nolo contendere guilty to five counts of mail and wire fraud and fully admitted his guilt as to one count of tax fraud. This case is being investigated by Special Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Internal Revenue Service. Assistant United States Attorneys Kurt R. Erskine, Richard S. Moultrie, Jr. and Kamal Ghali are prosecuting the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Presse-mails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the home page for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Atlanta Division is http://www.justice.gov/usao/gan/.
corruption FRESNO, CA—A federal grand jury indicted former Fresno deputy police chief Keith Foster and six others today, charging them with a variety of drug trafficking offenses, United States Attorney Benjamin B. Wagner announced. In addition to Keith Foster, 51, the indictment includes charges against Randy Flowers, 48; Iran Dennis “Denny” Foster, 44; Rafael Guzman, 41; Jennifer Donabedian, 35; and Sarah Ybarra, 37, all of Fresno; and Ricky Reynolds, 30, of Shasta Lake. All defendants are scheduled to be arraigned on the indictment at 1:30 p.m. on Friday, April 10, 2015. The indictment charges Keith Foster with participating in three separate conspiracies to distribute different controlled substances over the course of the past year. Keith Foster is charged with conspiring with Randy Flowers to distribute oxycodone. They are charged individually in four separate counts to distribute, or possess with the intent to distribute oxycodone. Flowers is further charged with being a felon in possession of three firearms. Keith Foster and Rafael Guzman are charged with conspiring to distribute heroin. Keith Foster is also charged with conspiring with Reynolds, Donabedian, Ybarra and Denny Foster to distribute marijuana. Reynolds is separately charged with manufacturing marijuana, and both Reynolds and Denny Foster are charged individually in various counts alleging distribution of marijuana. Denny Foster is also charged with being a felon in possession of a firearm. Each defendant is charged in at least one count with using a cellphone in furtherance of a drug trafficking offense. Finally, Denny Foster and Guzman are charged with conspiring to distribute methamphetamine, cocaine and heroin. This case is the product of an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. U.S. Attorney Wagner expressed his appreciation for the hard work done by the FBI and ATF investigators in the course of the investigation. Assistant United States Attorneys Melanie L. Alsworth and Dawrence W. Rice are prosecuting the case. If convicted, the defendants face a statutory maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a $1 million fine for the counts charging controlled substances other than or in addition to marijuana, a maximum of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine for the marijuana-only trafficking offenses, four years in prison and a $250,000 fine for using a cellphone to facilitate the commission of a felony, and a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine for being a felon in possession of a firearm. Any sentence, however, would be determined at the discretion of the court after consideration of any applicable statutory factors and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, which take into account a number of variables. The charges are only allegations; the defendants are presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption A Detroit Police lieutenant and an officer were indicted yesterday on charges of robbing drug dealers and stealing drugs and money obtained in police searches, U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade announced today. The indictment was sealed until this morning. Joining McQuade in the announcement were Special Agent in Charge Paul M. Abbate of the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Detroit Division, Chief James E. Craig of the Detroit Police Department and Special Agent in Charge Joseph P. Reagan, Drug Enforcement Administration, Detroit Field Division. Lieutenant David Hansberry, 34, and Officer Bryan Watson, 46, each were charged with conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute narcotics, conspiracy to interfere with commerce by robbery, multiple counts of interference with commerce by robbery and extortion, possession with intent to distribute five or more kilograms of cocaine and two counts of possessing a firearm in furtherance of a crime of violence and drug trafficking crime. A third defendant, Kevlin Omar Brown, 45, was also charged with one count of interference with commerce by robbery and extortion. According to the indictment, the defendants arranged drug transactions with civilians, including confidential sources, so that they could rob and extort them. The defendants allegedly carried out traffic stops and fake arrests, and then stole drugs, money and personal property from their victims. Hansberry and Watson are charged with using their status as law enforcement officers to assist in their scheme, by driving police vehicles, activating lights on their police vehicles, wearing police-issued attire, displaying official badges and carrying firearms. Hansberry and Watson also allegedly identified themselves as police officers to coerce their victims into complying with their demands and to encourage their victims to flee, leaving behind illegal drugs, money, and personal property. The indictment also alleges that Hansberry and Watson failed to log into evidence money and drugs seized during searches of homes. Instead, they split the proceeds and arranged for the sale of the drugs, sharing the proceeds generated by the sales. “Officers who violate the law cannot be tolerated because effective law enforcement requires public trust,” McQuade said. “We applaud Chief Craig’s commitment to root out any officers who tarnish the badge.” “Special Agent in Charge Abbate stated, “Every police officer who would dishonor the badge must know that they will be held accountable under the law. As law enforcement officers, we owe a tremendous duty to the public we serve, and therefore must be held to the highest standards of trust and integrity. The FBI and its law enforcement partners are committed to ensuring that these fundamental principles are fully maintained and enforced without compromise.” “The vast majority of the men and women of the Detroit Police Department are honest and hard-working, but these defendants betrayed their oath and their fellow officers,” said Chief Craig. “We are committed to the highest standards of integrity, and we will remove any officers who do not live up to those high standards.” Hansberry and Watson were previously assigned to the now-disbanded Narcotics Section of the Detroit Police Department. Since October 2014, they have been on suspension by the Detroit Police Department. The charges in the indictment are merely accusations, and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. The case was investigated by the by the FBI Detroit Area Public Corruption Task Force, in collaboration with the Detroit Police Department’s Office of Internal Affairs and the Drug Enforcement Administration. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Sheldon Light and Louis P. Gabel.
corruption U.S. Attorney Kenneth A. Polite announced the return of a Superseding Indictment charging Houston Police Officer NOE JUAREZ, 46, and Mexican citizen SERGIO GRIMALDO, 32, with conspiracy to distribute five kilograms or more of cocaine hydrochloride. JUAREZ is additionally charged with conspiracy to possess firearms in furtherance of a drug trafficking offense. The Superseding Indictment was returned on April 2, 2015 and recently unsealed. This Superseding Indictment is a product of an ongoing investigation. Both defendants are presently in custody. If convicted of conspiracy to distribute cocaine, each defendant faces a sentence of ten years to life imprisonment, followed by a minimum of five years of supervised release, and a $10,000,000 fine. If convicted of conspiracy to possess a firearm in furtherance of drug trafficking, JUAREZ faces a maximum of twenty years’ imprisonment, followed by a maximum of three years of supervised release, and a $250,000 fine. U.S. Attorney Polite reiterated that an indictment is merely a charge and that the guilt of the defendants must be proven beyond a reasonable doubt. U.S. Attorney Polite praised the work of the Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”) offices in New Orleans and Houston, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (“FBI”) in Houston, and the Houston Police Department Internal Affairs Division in investigating this matter and thanked the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Texas for their assistance. Assistant United States Attorney John F. Murphy is in charge of the prosecution.
corruption BUFFALO, NY—The United States Attorney’s Office announced today that Latonya Young, 44, an employee of the Erie County Clerk’s Office who was assigned to work at the New York State Department of Motor Vehicles (NYS DMV), who was convicted of mail fraud, was sentenced to time served and one years’ supervised release by Senior U.S. District Court Judge William M. Skretny. Assistant U.S. Attorney Russell T. Ippolito, Jr., who handled the prosecution, stated that Young worked as a motor vehicle representative at the NYS DMV and was authorized to conduct transactions. The defendant had access to a NYS DMV database and computer system that contained driver’s licenses, and motor vehicle registration and title records. Between June 13, 2012, and August 30, 2012, Young unlawfully processed fraudulent duplicate title applications for a person working with the government in return for cash payments totaling $725. In processing the fraudulent documents, the defendant unlawfully forged the name of the person listed on the duplicate title applications. Young also admitted that in 2010, she assisted another in amending a New York State license to create a fake identification. The fake identification was created to enable an individual under the legal drinking age to obtain alcohol. The sentencing is the culmination of an investigation on the part of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, NYS Department of Motor Vehicles, under the direction of Commissioner Barbara Fiala, Buffalo Police Department, under the direction of Commissioner Daniel Derenda, NYS Department of Taxation and Finance, Criminal Investigations Division, under the direction of Commissioner Thomas Mattox, NYS Department of Financial Services, under the direction of Superintendent Benjamin Lawsky, Criminal Investigations Division, and the NYS Inspector General’s Office, under the direction of Inspector General Catherine Leahy Scott.
corruption LITTLE ROCK—Another feeding program sponsor for the Department of Human Services (DHS) has been indicted for her role in a conspiracy to steal federal money earmarked to feed hungry children. Christopher R. Thyer, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Arkansas, announced that Kattie L. Jordan, 50, of Dermott, previously identified as “Co-Conspirator ‘A’” in an indictment that was returned by a Federal Grand Jury on December 11, 2014, was added as a defendant to the original indictment. The indictment already named Gladys Elise King, 34, of England; Tonique D. Hatton, 37, of North Little Rock; and Jacqueline D. Mills, 39, of Helena, as defendants in the case. The Superseding Indictment, returned by a Federal Grand Jury on April 8, 2015, charges Hatton, Jordan, King, and Mills with conspiracy to fraudulently obtain United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) program funds. Additionally, Mills is charged with wire fraud, paying bribes, and engaging in money laundering. King and Hatton are also charged with accepting bribes. The Superseding Indictment also seeks forfeiture of the proceeds obtained as a result of the fraud from the defendants. According to the Superseding Indictment, the USDA funds the Child and Adult Care Feeding Program, which includes an at-risk afterschool component. USDA also funds the Summer Food Service Program. In Arkansas, the feeding programs are administered by DHS. Sponsors who want to participate in the feeding programs must submit an application to DHS for approval. Once approved, they can provide meals as part of the feeding program and be reimbursed based on the number of eligible meals they serve. The Superseding Indictment states that Hatton and King worked for DHS, and part of their job was to determine eligibility of sponsors to participate in the feeding programs. Jordan and Mills operated as sponsors for separate feeding programs. Hatton and King were responsible for approving Jordan’s programs and Mills’ programs at various times. The Superseding Indictment alleges that Mills and Jordan made bribe payments to DHS employees Hatton and King. In exchange for those bribes, Mills and Jordan would submit inflated numbers of meals purportedly served from their sites. Hatton and King provided protection from DHS scrutiny. The statutory penalty for wire fraud and conspiracy to commit wire fraud is not more than 20 years’ imprisonment, not more than a $250,000 fine, or both, and not more than three years’ supervised release. The statutory penalty for receipt of bribes, paying bribes, and money laundering is not more than 10 years’ imprisonment, not more than a $250,000 fine, or both, and not more than three years’ supervised release. The investigation is ongoing and is conducted by the United States Secret Service, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigations, United States Department of Agriculture—Office of Inspector General, and the United States Marshals Service. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Jana K. Harris and Allison W. Bragg. If anyone is aware of any fraudulent activity regarding these feeding programs, please e-mail that information to the United States Attorney’s office at USAARE.FeedingProgramFraud@usdoj.gov. An indictment contains only allegations. Defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty.
corruption SAN JOSE—John Nyunt was sentenced today to 30 months in prison, and ordered to pay a $5,000 fine and over $10,000 in restitution for charges filed against him in connection with his position as Commander of the Pacific Grove Police Department (“PGPD”), announced United States Attorney Melinda Haag and FBI Special Agent in Charge David J. Johnson. Nyunt, 51, from Pacific Grove, pleaded guilty on May 13, 2014, to extortion and wire fraud. He also pleaded guilty on December 16, 2014, to possession of stolen firearms. The case involves Nyunt’s abuse of his position with the police department and his attempts to profit illegally from his position of authority. In the May 13, 2014, plea agreement, Nyunt admitted he lied to a person who approached the PGPD to report having been a victim of electronic surveillance and stalking. Rather than investigate the alleged crime, Nyunt admitted telling the person she would have to hire a private investigator of his choosing. The individual ultimately paid $10,000 to Nyunt and the investigator for assistance, including promised security services, that never materialized. Pursuant to the plea agreement, Nyunt pleaded guilty to one count of extortion, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1951, and one count of wire fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1343. In the December 16, 2014, plea agreement, Nyunt admitted to employing a scheme by which he would profit from his illegal possession and sale of numerous stolen assault rifles, shotguns, and semi-automatic pistols. Aside from being the Commander of the PGPD, Nyunt also was an instructor at the former police academy at the Monterey Peninsula College (“MPC”). Nyunt knew the MPC was willing to donate numerous firearms to PGPD. He convinced the college he would accept the firearms on behalf of PGPD. Specifically, knowing that the PGPD did not want the firearms, Nyunt nevertheless signed a memorandum of understanding with the MPC that falsely stated he was accepting the firearms on PGPD’s behalf. Nyunt was not authorized to execute the agreement and was not authorized to accept the firearms. Then, over the course of about three years, Nyunt arranged to have most or all of the guns sold. Pursuant to the plea agreement, Nyunt pleaded guilty to possession of stolen firearms, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 922(j). In addition to these federal charges, on April 24, 2014, Nyunt pleaded guilty in state court to one count of dissuading a person from reporting a crime by threats of violence, one count of being an accessory after the fact to theft and burglary, and one count of being an accomplice to the burglary of a business. All three of these state offenses are felonies and Nyunt received a sentence of three years’ imprisonment. Nyunt’s federal sentence was handed down by The Honorable Beth Labson Freeman, U.S. District Judge. Nyunt’s 30 month sentence will run concurrently with the remaining portion of his state court sentence. Judge Freeman also imposed a fine of $5000, restitution of $9000 to one of Nyunt’s victims, and $1,867.95 to the Pacific Grove Police Department. Assistant U.S. Attorney Philip A. Guentert is prosecuting the case with the assistance of Elise Etter. The prosecution is the result of an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, as well as investigators from the Monterey County District Attorney’s Office.
corruption NEWARK, NJ—A Jersey City fire inspector was sentenced today to one year and one day in prison for accepting bribes in return for his assistance in providing prostitution businesses with certificates of occupancy and advance notice of inspections or law enforcement activity, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Phillip Procaccino, 56, of Belleville, New Jersey, previously pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Katharine S. Hayden to an information charging him with one count of attempting to obstruct, delay and affect interstate commerce by extortion under color of official right. Judge Hayden imposed the sentence today in Newark federal court. According to documents filed in this case and statements made in court: Procaccino admitted that on Oct. 23, 2013, he accepted $2,500 in exchange for his official assistance in obtaining a certificate of occupancy for a massage parlor, which also operated as a prostitution business. Procaccino also offered to provide notice of impending inspections from Jersey City authorities so the owner and employees could preemptively hide evidence of prostitution. In addition, Procaccino agreed to take 10 percent of future profits from a separate prostitution business in exchange for a certificate of occupancy and one day’s advance notice of any police activity targeting the business. Both prostitution businesses were located in Jersey City. In addition to the prison term, Judge Hayden sentenced Procaccino to serve one year of supervised release. U.S. Attorney Fishman praised special agents of the FBI’s Newark Field Office, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Richard M. Frankel, and criminal investigators from the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Newark for their work leading to today’s sentence. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Vikas Khanna and Amy Luria of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division in Newark.
corruption FBI Agent Jeff Youngblood works Indian Country matters in Oklahoma—including cases involving the Choctaw Nation, of which he is an enrolled member. Public Corruption FBI Agent Helps Protect His Native American Community 04/07/15 When Special Agent Jeff Youngblood helped convict a corrupt public official from the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma last year who was demanding bribes and kickbacks from contractors bidding on tribal construction projects, he felt more satisfaction than usual bringing a criminal to justice. That’s because Youngblood is Native American and a member of the Choctaw tribe. “My dad was born and raised in this area, and Oklahoma is where I was born and raised,” said Youngblood, who is assigned to the FBI’s Oklahoma City Division and works in the southeastern part of the state that is home to the Choctaw Nation. “There aren’t many Native Americans who are special agents,” he said, “and I have yet to meet any that are working in Indian Country and are enrolled members of the tribe where they work. I think mine is a unique situation.” It’s a situation Youngblood embraces. The Durant Resident Agency, where he is stationed with one other agent, has responsibility for a six-county area that covers much of the Choctaw Nation. With a large casino resort complex in Durant—located only an hour’s drive from Dallas, Texas—the tribe is a major economic driver in the region, and many residents depend on it for their livelihood. When Youngblood received a tip regarding improprieties by the executive director of construction for the tribe, he began to investigate. He soon discovered that Jason Merida was running a classic “pay to play” system, shaking down contractors for cash, trips, vehicles, guns, and other items in return for lucrative construction projects. “If he didn’t get what he wanted, you weren’t going to get the job,” Youngblood said. Some of the contractors who paid bribes to win contracts then padded their invoices, Youngblood noted, “which cost the tribe additional money.” Merida was indicted in February 2014 and charged with conspiracy to commit theft or bribery from programs receiving federal funds, theft by an employee or officer of a tribal government receiving federal funds, money laundering, and tax fraud. Jeff Youngblood describes his role—as an FBI agent and as a tribal member—in this case. Transcript | Download Testimony at trial in November 2014 revealed that Merida and others submitted and approved false invoices from subcontractors, allowing Merida to steal more than $500,000 in funds from the Choctaw Nation. He was found guilty on a variety of theft charges and is currently awaiting sentencing. “Through interviews, analysis of bank records, and other investigative techniques, we were able to identify a lot of assets that were fraudulently given to Merida,” Youngblood said. “There was an excessive waste of the tribe’s money because of a few people’s greed.” And as the investigation went on, Youngblood realized that he, too, was a victim. “I understood what all that money could have been used for—maybe to help with my children’s education or the educational needs of other members’ children or many other worthy tribal causes,” he said. “So much good could have been done with that money.” He added that “a lot of honest companies got squeezed out” because they didn’t pay to play, “and those companies’ employees have families that live here in Southeastern Oklahoma, and they were robbed of an opportunity to have gainful employment because of these individuals.” Youngblood believes this investigation should send a message—“not only here in the Choctaw Nation but for all the tribes in the region: If you’re going to do work for the Indians, it better be honest and done fairly. If not, we will find you and we will prosecute you.” Resources: - Press release - More on the FBI’s role in Indian Country
corruption SYRACUSE, NY—On April 2, 2015, ANTHONY B. FELDER (44) of Redwood, New York, was sentenced to two years of Probation and a $5,000 fine by the Honorable David E. Peebles, announced United States Attorney Richard S. Hartunian and Marion F. Robey, Director, Major Procurement Fraud Unit, U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command (Army CID), Quantico, Virginia. Judge Peebles also ordered Felder to pay $35,500 in restitution to the United States Army Corps of Engineers. Felder pled guilty in November 2014 to knowingly making a false statement regarding outside positions he held while employed by the Army Corps of Engineers at Fort Drum in Jefferson County, New York. Felder subsequently resigned his position as a project manager with the Army Corps of Engineers. In January 2009, Felder incorporated a proprietary engineering company named East Coast Mitigation, which soon thereafter began performing environmental subcontract work at Fort Drum. The following month, Felder, who was legally barred from doing outside work on any contracts at Form Drum while employed by the Army Corps of Engineers, submitted a certification form in which he was required to report “[a]ll positions [held] outside the U.S. Government.” When he submitted the form, Felder reported various outside positions which did not conflict with his employment at Fort Drum, but he did not disclose his ownership interest in East Coast Mitigation. As a result, Felder earned a personal profit of $35,500 from the subcontract work performed by East Coast Mitigation before his false statement was discovered. This case was investigated by the Major Procurement Fraud Unit, Army CID, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, Office of Inspector General, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and it was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Michael F. Perry. Please direct press inquiries to Executive Assistant U.S. Attorney John Duncan at 315-448-0672.
corruption ABINGDON, VA—As part of its ongoing probe into corruption at the Bristol Virginia Utilities Authority (BVU), the United States Attorney’s Office for the Western District of Virginia, along with investigative partners at the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, announced today that a pair of former contractors who supplied BVU with false invoices have pled guilty. During separate hearings today in District Court, Michael Albert Clark and James Todd Edwards pled guilty to federal crimes associated with their individual roles in schemes to provide fake invoices and pay kickbacks to BVU officials. Edwards, 45, of Columbia, S.C., waived his right to be indicted today and pled guilty to a one count Information charging him with engaging in a multi-object conspiracy to commit wire fraud, mail fraud, tax fraud and money laundering. Clark, 63, of Colbert, Ga., also waived his right to be indicted and pled guilty today to one count of engaging in a conspiracy to defraud the Internal Revenue Service. According to evidence presented at today’s hearing by Assistant United States Attorney Zachary Lee, Edwards was the CEO of Edwards Telecommunications Inc. (ETI), a privately held corporation that worked as a contractor for BVU. In early 2006, Edwards, and Robert James Kelley Jr., then Vice President of Field Operations for BVU, embarked on a scheme to defraud BVU when Kelley Jr. requested that Edwards begin making kickback payments. On or about and between January 2006 and February 2009, Edwards caused a number of false invoices to be submitted to Kelley Jr. for work not actually completed by ETI. Kelley Jr., approved these false invoices for payment knowing they contained false information. Kelley Jr. did this in order to receive kickback payments from Edwards. Edwards paid Kelley Jr. at least $160,000 in kickbacks. In addition, Edwards paid $40,000 in kickbacks to David Copeland, another former VP of Field Operations for BVU. At sentencing, Edwards faces a maximum possible penalty of up to five years in prison and/or a fine of up to $250,000 Evidence presented in court today also showed that Clark, who performed contract work for BVU from January 2000 to March 2015, submitted false invoices to Kelley Jr. for work not actually completed. Specifically, Clark submitted invoices in regards to his consulting business, R&M Consulting. These false invoices resulted in at least $110,065 in fraudulent billing by Clark to the BVU. Kelley Jr. approved these invoices knowing that the invoices contained false information. He approved these invoices because he was being paid kickbacks by Clark. In addition, Kelley Jr. prepared false invoices that he sent to Clark that falsely claimed that he had done consulting work for Clark through Kelley Jr.’s company, RJK Consulting. Both Kelley Jr. and Clark knew these invoices were fraudulent and that Kelley Jr. had not done any work for Clark. Clark wrote checks to Kelley Jr. in the amount of $106,025 in order to pay kickbacks to Kelley Jr. Clark filed tax returns with the IRS for tax years 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009 and falsely claimed and deducted the payments to Kelley Jr. as business expenses with the intention of defrauding the IRS. At sentencing, Clark faces a maximum possible penalty of up to five years in prison and/or a fine of up to $250,000. The investigation of the case was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Zachary Lee will prosecute the case for the United States.
corruption ST. LOUIS, MO—Former St. Louis City Police Officer DON McGHEE pled guilty to charges of providing a firearm to known drug dealers to facilitate their distribution of crack cocaine and marijuana in the City of St. Louis. According to court documents, McGhee was a St. Louis Metropolitan Police Officer, assigned as a Patrolman in the Sixth District. Officer McGhee knew and associated with individuals who stored and distributed quantities of crack cocaine and marijuana in and from a house located on Cottage Avenue, in the City of St. Louis. On March 2, 2014, Officer McGhee took a Mossberg 12-gauge pistol grip shotgun to the Cottage Avenue drug house and gave it to one of the drug dealers knowing, believing or having reason to believe that the drug dealer would use the shotgun in relation to and in furtherance of the drug trafficking. During the execution of a search warrant at the Cottage Avenue house several days later, law enforcement officers recovered the Mossberg pistol grip shotgun, fully loaded, along with several other firearms, ammunition, quantities of crack cocaine and marijuana and a large amount of cash. McGhee, St. Louis City, pled guilty to one felony count of conspiracy to possess a firearm in relation to a drug trafficking crime before United States District Judge Audrey G. Fleissig. Sentencing has been set for July 14, 2015. This charge carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and/or fines up to $250,000. In determining the actual sentence, a judge is required to consider the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines, which provide recommended sentencing ranges. United States Attorney Richard Callahan noted that this investigation originated with the St. Louis City Police Department, which then partnered with additional law enforcement agencies as its investigation expanded. In addition to the St. Louis City Police Department, the case is also being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the United States Drug Enforcement Administration and the St. Louis Circuit Attorney’s Office. Assistant United States Attorney Hal Goldsmith is handling the case for the U.S. Attorney’s Office.
corruption FRANKFORT—A former deputy of the Franklin County Sheriff’s Department, who previously admitted to using evidence collected from an investigation to pay for personal expenses, has been sentenced to 16 months in federal prison and two months of home incarceration. U.S. District Judge Gregory F. Van Tatenhove sentenced Matthew Christian Brown, 32, for theft of government property and ordered him to pay $17,840.54 in restitution. Of that amount, $9,900 will be paid to the Franklin County Sheriff’s Department. Under federal law, Brown must serve at least 85 percent of his prison sentence; and following his release, he will be under the supervision of the U.S. Probation Office for three years. According to his plea agreement, Brown, who also served as the chief narcotics officer, executed a search warrant at a suspect’s residence, where he seized a watch and a ring. Instead of logging those items as evidence, Brown kept them for himself. He further admitted that he sold the ring back to the suspect. Brown served as a deputy sheriff from May 2007 until December 2012. Kerry B. Harvey, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky; Rodney C. Brewer, Kentucky State Police Commissioner; and Howard Marshall, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation, jointly made the announcement today. The investigation was conducted by the Kentucky State Police and the FBI. Assistant U.S. Attorney Hydee Hawkins prosecuted this case on behalf of the federal government.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office, and J.D. Patterson, Director, Miami-Dade Police Department (MDPD), made the announcement. Rafael Duran, 43, of Miami, made his initial appearance before U.S. Magistrate Jonathan Goodman. Duran’s arraignment is scheduled for April 16, 2015. Duran is charged, by indictment, with conspiracy to commit wire fraud and wire fraud offenses, punishable by up to twenty years in prison. According to allegations contained in the indictment, Duran participated in a scheme to provide false police reports to individuals operating credit repair businesses. A co-conspirator would provide Duran with the personal identifying information of credit business customers. Duran would create false police reports, using the customers’ personal identifying information. The police reports would falsely represent that the customers had reported to the Miami-Dade Police Department facts consistent with having been victims of identity theft. Duran would cause the false police reports to become official records of the Miami-Dade Police Department. A member of the conspiracy, associated with the credit businesses, would cause the false police reports created by Duran to be transmitted to credit reporting agencies in order to induce the removal of negative items from the credit histories of the alleged victims identified in the false police reports. Duran created the false police reports in order to promote the success of the credit businesses and in return would receive payment and other things of value from his co-conspirators, including credit repair services. Mr. Ferrer thanked the FBI Miami Area Corruption Task Force and MDPD Professional Compliance Bureau. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael Davis. An indictment is only an accusation and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Southern District of Florida at www.flsd.uscourts.gov or on http://pacer.flsd.uscourts.gov.
corruption ATLANTA—Ismail Sirdah has pleaded guilty to bribing a member of the DeKalb County Zoning Board of Appeals to secure a variance for his late-night billiard hall, Lulu Billiards in Tucker, Georgia. “Zoning rules exist to protect neighborhoods from businesses and establishments that might disrupt the residential aspect of our communities,” said Acting U.S. Attorney John Horn. “This case illustrates how greed and cash payments can sell out the legitimate interests of our citizens.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated: “While the FBI’s focus in public corruption matters is primarily with that of the public official, it can readily shift to those individuals who attempt to corrupt those officials. That was seen in this case involving Mr. Sirdah, an area business owner, who purchased the vote of a DeKalb County Zoning Board member in a county action that impacted his business. This guilty plea of Mr. Sirdah’s, for those criminal actions, should serve as a reminder that the FBI will not tolerate efforts to unduly and illegally influence government officials in this manner.” According to Acting U.S. Attorney Horn, the charges, and other information presented in court: In November 2008, the DeKalb County, Georgia, Board of Commissioners passed a zoning ordinance that regulated the operation of late-night establishments and nightclubs. As a general matter, the ordinance required that new businesses must obtain a Special Land Use Permit if they wanted to operate either as a late-night establishment or as a nightclub. The zoning ordinance provided an exception to the new rule for pre-existing late-night establishments and nightclubs, which allowed those businesses to be grandfathered in under the 2008 zoning ordinance change. Ismail Sirdah is the owner and Chief Executive Officer of 2841 Investments, Inc., which does business as LuLu Billiards. LuLu Billiards is a pool hall and bar located in Tucker, DeKalb County, Georgia. Based on the new zoning ordinance, in November 2011, the DeKalb County Department of Planning and Sustainability informed LuLu Billiards in writing that it was grandfathered in only as a late-night business—and thus could neither operate as a nightclub nor have a dance floor. Notwithstanding the notice, Lulu Billiards operated as a nightclub and possessed a dance floor. In September 2012, the Department of Planning and Sustainability issued a warning to Sirdah through LuLu Billiards for operating as a nightclub with a dance floor. In the warning, Sirdah was again advised that under the new zoning ordinance, LuLu Billiards could not operate as a nightclub or have a dance floor without a Special Land Use Permit. Sirdah responded that LuLu Billiards had operated as a nightclub prior to the 2008 zoning ordinance—and as a result, should be grandfathered in as a nightclub under the new zoning rule. Sirdah appealed not being able to operate LuLu Billiards as a nightclub to the Zoning Board of Appeals. The Zoning Board of Appeals hears and decides zoning appeals when a property owner alleges that a county official committed a zoning error. Prior to the hearing on the appeal, Sirdah met with Jeremy “Jerry” Clark, who was a member from the Zoning Board of Appeals. During those meetings, Sirdah made it clear to Clark, that if the Zoning Board of Appeals approved Sirdah’s petition to operate as a nightclub, Clark would be rewarded. In November 2012, the Zoning Board of Appeals approved Sirdah’s request to operate as a nightclub. Clark voted in favor of LuLu Billiards being able to operate as a nightclub. In return for the vote, Sirdah paid Clark approximately $2000 in cash and donated approximately $1,500 to a non-profit interest with which Clark was involved. On February 19, 2015, Clark, 42, of Lithonia, Georgia, pleaded guilty to accepting a bribe from Sirdah. Clark is scheduled to be sentenced on April 30, 2015, at 10:00 a.m., before United States District Court Judge Leigh Martin May. On March 25, 2015, Sirdah, 53, of Duluth, Georgia, was charged via a criminal information with one count of bribery. Sirdah pleaded guilty to that charge. The sentencing hearing for Sirdah is scheduled for June 15, 2015, at 11:00 a.m., also before Judge May. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Jeffrey W. Davis is prosecuting the case.
corruption ATLANTA—Patrick Jackson, a former janitorial services manager for the DeKalb County Government and Georgia World Congress Center (GWCC), has pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit honest services fraud, admitting that he used his position as a public official to obtain benefits for himself. “Jackson abused his position as a public official by accepting a bribe in exchange for helping a company attain and maintain government contracts at both the Georgia World Congress Center and DeKalb County,” said Acting U.S. Attorney John A. Horn. “This dishonest conduct threatens to undermine the integrity of the contracting system and the quality of the goods and services produced pursuant to those contracts. Today Jackson admitted his wrongdoing.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated: “The FBI will continue to make public corruption cases at all levels a priority matter and asks that anyone with information regarding such matters to contact their nearest FBI field office.” According to Acting U.S. Attorney Horn, the charges, the plea agreement, and other information presented in court: From 2006 through 2012, Jackson simultaneously worked for two governmental entities: DeKalb County and GWCC. He served as the manager of janitorial services for both entities without the knowledge of either entity. In court, Jackson admitted to using his position as a public official to obtain favors from a company (identified in the Indictment as “Company A”) that provided janitorial services to both DeKalb County and GWCC. Jackson worked for “Company A” before he began working for DeKalb County and GWCC. While employed by DeKalb County and GWCC, Jackson lived in a luxury apartment in Atlanta, Georgia, that “Company A” furnished and paid for. In exchange, Jackson used his position as a public official to benefit “Company A” in its business dealings with DeKalb County and GWCC. During that time, “Company A” obtained governmental contracts well in excess of one million dollars with the entities. Jackson did not disclose to either employer that “Company A” paid for his apartment. By accepting these bribes, Jackson deprived his employers of their right to his honest services. Patrick Jackson, 56, of Loganville, Georgia, pleaded guilty before United States District Judge William Duffey. Jackson was indicted by a federal grand jury on September 9, 2014. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Georgia Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorneys Jamie L. Mickelson and Kamal Ghali are prosecuting the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Presse-mails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the home page for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Atlanta Division is http://www.justice.gov/usao/gan/.
corruption WASHINGTON—Robert Menendez, a U.S. senator, and Salomon Melgen, a Florida ophthalmologist, were indicted today in connection with a bribery scheme in which Menendez allegedly accepted gifts from Melgen in exchange for using the power of his Senate office to benefit Melgen’s financial and personal interests, announced Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and Special Agent in Charge Richard M. Frankel of the FBI’s Newark, New Jersey, Division. “Government corruption—at any level of elected office—corrodes the public trust and weakens our democratic system,” said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. “It is the fundamental responsibility of the Department of Justice to hold public officials accountable by conducting thorough investigations and seeking an indictment when the facts and the law support it.” “The job of an elected official is to serve the people,” said Special Agent in Charge Frankel. “The citizens of New Jersey have the right to demand honest, unbiased service and representation from their elected officials at all levels of government. The charges and activity alleged in this indictment are another example of the FBI’s commitment to aggressively and tenaciously pursue public corruption in the state of New Jersey.” Menendez, 61, of Union City, New Jersey, and Melgen, 61, of West Palm Beach, Florida, were indicted in the District of New Jersey for one count of conspiracy, one count of violating the travel act, eight counts of bribery and three counts of honest services fraud. Menendez was also charged with one count of making false statements. According to allegations in the indictment, between January 2006 and January 2013, Menendez accepted close to $1 million worth of lavish gifts and campaign contributions from Melgen in exchange for using the power of his Senate office to influence the outcome of ongoing contractual and Medicare billing disputes worth tens of millions of dollars to Melgen and to support the visa applications of several of Melgen’s girlfriends. Specifically, the indictment alleges that, among other gifts, Menendez accepted flights on Melgen’s private jet, a first-class commercial flight and a flight on a chartered jet; numerous vacations at Melgen’s Caribbean villa in the Dominican Republic and at a hotel room in Paris; and $40,000 in contributions to his legal defense fund and over $750,000 in campaign contributions. Menendez never disclosed any of the reportable gifts that he received from Melgen on his financial disclosure forms. According to allegations in the indictment, during this same time period, Menendez allegedly engaged in three efforts to use his Senate office and staff to advocate on behalf of Melgen’s personal and financial interests. First, Menendez allegedly pressured executive agencies in connection with a conflict between Melgen and the government of the Dominican Republic relating to a disputed contract that Melgen purchased to provide exclusive screening of containers coming through Dominican ports. Second, Menendez allegedly advocated on behalf of Melgen in connection with a Medicare billing dispute worth approximately $8.9 million to Melgen. Third, Menendez allegedly took active steps to support the tourist and student visa applications of three of Melgen’s girlfriends, as well as the visa application of the younger sister of one of Melgen’s girlfriends. Throughout these efforts, Menendez allegedly engaged in advocacy for Melgen all the way up to the highest levels of the U.S. government, including meeting with a U.S. cabinet secretary, contacting a U.S. Ambassador, meeting with the heads of executive agencies and other senior executive officials and soliciting other U.S. Senators, all in order to assist Melgen’s personal and pecuniary interests. The charges contained in an indictment are merely accusations, and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. The case is being investigated by the FBI. The case is being prosecuted by Deputy Chiefs Peter Koski and J.P. Cooney, and Trial Attorney Monique Abrishami of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section.
corruption NEWARK, NJ—A Paterson City Council member and former council president was sentenced today to 24 months in prison for accepting bribes from a purported developer in exchange for his official help, New Jersey U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Anthony Davis, 50, of Paterson, New Jersey, previously pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge William H. Walls to an information charging him with one count of attempting to obstruct, delay and affect interstate commerce by extortion under color of official right. Judge Walls imposed the sentence today in Newark federal court. According to documents filed in this case and statements made in court: On April 20, 2012, Davis accepted $5,000 in cash from an individual who was cooperating with federal authorities and who purported to be an out-of-state real estate developer. Davis accepted the bribe in exchange for his official action as Paterson City Council president to foster the developer’s business interests. Between July 6, 2012, and July 25, 2012, Davis had meetings with the developer, during which Davis discussed the possibility of accepting additional money from the developer in exchange for a letter from Davis to the developer’s lender indicating that the Paterson City Council supported the developer with respect to certain business endeavors in Paterson. On July 25, 2012, Davis agreed to accept, and did accept, $5,000 in cash from the developer in exchange for such a letter. In addition to the prison term, Judge Walls sentenced Davis to two years of supervised release. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI Newark Field Office, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Richard M. Frankel, with the investigation leading to today’s sentencing. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Vikas Khanna of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division.
corruption NEWARK, NJ—A former lieutenant with the Miami-Dade Police Department, Internal Affairs, today admitted his role in a narcotics conspiracy, including purchasing six firearms for a drug trafficking organization and smuggling those weapons through security checkpoints at the Miami International Airport, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Ralph Mata, 45, a/k/a “the Milk Man,” of Broward County, Florida, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Court Judge Susan D. Wigenton in Newark federal court to an information charging him with one count of aiding and abetting a narcotics conspiracy, one count of conspiring to distribute cocaine and one count of engaging in monetary transactions in property derived from unlawful activity. Judge Wigenton continued Mata’s release on bail pending sentencing. According to documents filed in this case and statements made in court: From June 2012 through November 2012, Mata purchased at least six firearms from a gun store in Florida, which ultimately were provided to members of the Juan Arias Drug Trafficking Organization. Using his prior experience as a lieutenant assigned to the Miami International Airport, as well as his law enforcement contacts at the airport, Mata and others smuggled the six firearms through airport security checkpoints and onto a commercial airliner destined for the Dominican Republic. Mata also provided advice, guidance and counsel to Juan Arias regarding the means and methods the drug trafficking organization should use to import and distribute cocaine. Mata transported narcotics proceeds for the organization. He also engaged in monetary transactions in property derived from the sale of narcotics. On March 28, 2013, Mata traveled from Miami to New Jersey and received approximately $60,000 in narcotics proceeds from Juan Arias and others. Using a portion of that $60,000, Mata made separate $10,000 cash deposits at two different bank locations in Fort Lee, New Jersey. As payment for his assistance to the drug trafficking organization, Mata accepted a total of approximately $100,000 in cash and gifts from the Juan Arias drug trafficking organization. The charges of aiding and abetting a narcotics conspiracy and conspiring to distribute cocaine each carry a minimum penalty of 10 years in prison, a maximum penalty of life imprisonment, and a maximum fine of $10 million. The money laundering charge is punishable by a maximum term of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. As part of his plea, Mata also agreed to forfeit the $75,405.17 seized on April 9, 2014. Sentencing is scheduled for July 14, 2015. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI’s Garret Mountain Resident Office, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Richard M. Frankel in Newark; special agents of the Drug Enforcement Administration, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Carl J. Kotowski; and special agents of IRS-Criminal Investigation, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Jonathan D. Larsen, with the investigation leading to today’s guilty plea. He also thanked the Miami FBI, the Miami-Dade Police Department, the Miami-Area Corruption Task Force and the U.S. Immigration and Custom Enforcement’s Homeland Security Investigations, New York, for their assistance with the investigation. This case was conducted under the auspices of the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF), a partnership between federal, state and local law enforcement agencies. The principal mission of the OCDETF program is to identify, disrupt and dismantle the most serious drug trafficking, weapons trafficking and money laundering organizations, and those primarily responsible for the nation’s illegal drug supply. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Mary E. Toscano and José R. Almonte of the Special Prosecutions Division in Newark, and Barbara Ward of the Office’s Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Unit.
corruption NEWARK, NJ—An inspector at the Union City Community Development Agency (UCCDA) today admitted conspiring with contractors to rig the selection process for home improvement, sidewalk replacement and other projects, causing losses of at least $400,000, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Johnny Garces, 52, of Union City, New Jersey, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge William H. Walls in Newark federal court to an information charging him with one count of conspiring with others to obtain by fraud funds provided by Union City. According to documents in this case and statements made in court: Between April 2007 and July 2011, Garces was an inspector at the UCCDA, a government agency that receives funding from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) under a federal block grant that provides money for home improvement projects, sidewalk replacement and other projects. From 2007 through 2011, Garces conspired with contractors Joseph Lado, 66, of Fort Lee, New Jersey, Leovaldo Fundora, 53 of Guttenberg, New Jersey, and others to rig the selection process for HUD-funded projects through false and misleading bids. In addition to instructing Lado and Fundora to submit phony, higher bids from competitors, Garces also fabricated higher bids from numerous fictitious companies so that Lado, Fundora and others would secure the projects. The conspiracy charge to which Garces pleaded guilty carries a maximum potential penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Garces is scheduled to be sentenced on July 7, 2015. Lado and Fundora have both pleaded guilty for their roles in the scheme and await sentencing. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Richard M. Frankel; and special agents of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Office of Inspector General, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Christina Scaringi, with the investigation leading to today’s guilty plea. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Amy Luria of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division in Newark.
corruption SHREVEPORT, LA—United States Attorney Stephanie A. Finley announced today that a federal grand jury indicted Caddo Parish Commissioner Michael Dwayne Williams for defrauding the Caddo Parish Commission and stealing from a nonprofit meant to help at-risk youth. Williams, 54, of Shreveport, was indicted on 12 counts of wire fraud. The indictment alleges that from October 1, 2012 through July 1, 2014, Williams devised a scheme to take more than $2,000 from a nonprofit’s bank account. Williams urged the parish commission to appropriate public funds for the nonprofit SWAG Nation. Once those funds were allocated from the parish’s budget to SWAG Nation, Williams caused a bank debit card to be issued for the nonprofit. Between April of 2013 and July of 2014, Williams used an ATM card to remove money on numerous occasions. According to the indictment, he took $100 to $200 each time that he made a withdrawal initializing 12 transactions from August 2013 to June 2014 for personal use. SWAG Nation’s declared purpose is to partner with local institutions to help mentor and counsel at-risk individuals ages 7 to 17 so that they can better function in society. “The Caddo Parish Sheriff’s Office investigated Michael Williams for several months and is pleased with the return of this indictment,” said Caddo Sheriff Steve Prator. “Unfortunately, there are people elected to office who will abuse the public’s trust. This money was meant for children, not politicians.” Williams faces up to 20 years in prison, five years of supervised release, and a $250,000 fine for each count. The FBI and Caddo Parish Sheriff’s Office conducted the investigation. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Joseph G. Jarzabek and Brandon B. Brown are prosecuting the case. An indictment is merely an accusation, and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption Two former federal agents have been charged with wire fraud, money laundering and related offenses for stealing digital currency during their investigation of the Silk Road, an underground black market that allowed users to conduct illegal transactions over the Internet. The charges are contained in a federal criminal complaint issued on March 25, 2015, in the Northern District of California and unsealed today. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag of the Northern District of California, Special Agent in Charge David J. Johnson of the FBI’s San Francisco Division, Special Agent in Charge José M. Martinez of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation’s (IRS-CI) San Francisco Division, Special Agent in Charge Michael P. Tompkins of the Justice Department’s Office of the Inspector General Washington Field Office and Special Agent in Charge Lori Hazenstab of the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of the Inspector General in Washington D.C. made the announcement. Carl M. Force, 46, of Baltimore, was a Special Agent with the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), and Shaun W. Bridges, 32, of Laurel, Maryland, was a Special Agent with the U.S. Secret Service (USSS). Both were assigned to the Baltimore Silk Road Task Force, which investigated illegal activity in the Silk Road marketplace. Force served as an undercover agent and was tasked with establishing communications with a target of the investigation, Ross Ulbricht, aka “Dread Pirate Roberts.” Force is charged with wire fraud, theft of government property, money laundering and conflict of interest. Bridges is charged with wire fraud and money laundering. According to the complaint, Force was a DEA agent assigned to investigate the Silk Road marketplace. During the investigation, Force engaged in certain authorized undercover operations by, among other things, communicating online with “Dread Pirate Roberts” (Ulbricht), the target of his investigation. The complaint alleges, however, that Force then, without authority, developed additional online personas and engaged in a broad range of illegal activities calculated to bring him personal financial gain. In doing so, the complaint alleges, Force used fake online personas, and engaged in complex Bitcoin transactions to steal from the government and the targets of the investigation. Specifically, Force allegedly solicited and received digital currency as part of the investigation, but failed to report his receipt of the funds, and instead transferred the currency to his personal account. In one such transaction, Force allegedly sold information about the government’s investigation to the target of the investigation. The complaint also alleges that Force invested in and worked for a digital currency exchange company while still working for the DEA, and that he directed the company to freeze a customer’s account with no legal basis to do so, then transferred the customer’s funds to his personal account. Further, Force allegedly sent an unauthorized Justice Department subpoena to an online payment service directing that it unfreeze his personal account. Bridges allegedly diverted to his personal account over $800,000 in digital currency that he gained control of during the Silk Road investigation. The complaint alleges that Bridges placed the assets into an account at Mt. Gox, the now-defunct digital currency exchange in Japan. He then allegedly wired funds into one of his personal investment accounts in the United States mere days before he sought a $2.1 million seizure warrant for Mt. Gox’s accounts. Bridges self-surrendered today and will appear before Magistrate Judge Maria-Elena James of the Northern District of California at 9:30 a.m. PST this morning. Force was arrested on Friday, March 27, 2015, in Baltimore and will appear before Magistrate Judge Timothy J. Sullivan of the District of Maryland at 2:30 p.m. EST today. The charges contained in the complaint are merely accusations, and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. The case was investigated by the FBI’s San Francisco Division, the IRS-CI’s San Francisco Division, the Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General and the Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General in Washington D.C. The Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network also provided assistance with the investigation of this case. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Kathryn Haun and William Frentzen of the Northern District of California and Trial Attorney Richard B. Evans of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section.
corruption Special Agent in Charge John S. Adams of the FBI’s Norfolk Division announced today a new initiative designed to solicit the public’s help in identifying and targeting public corruption. The initiative includes the launch of a new, toll-free tip line number, 1-844-FIGHTPC (1-844-344-4872), a billboard campaign, and a free public corruption seminar open to the Hampton Roads community. Public corruption is the FBI’s top criminal priority because it undermines the integrity of our government and erodes public trust. It is a violation of federal law for any federal, state, or local government official to receive anything of value in exchange for or because of any official act. The FBI relies heavily on our local, state, and federal partners to root out corruption, but concerned citizens are our biggest asset when it comes to exposing public officials who abuse their position for personal gain. As a result, the Norfolk Division has set up a free, confidential hotline at 1-844-FIGHTPC to provide an easy way for the public to report suspicious activity occurring in Hampton Roads. Online tips can also be submitted at tips.fbi.gov. Citizens who are interested in learning more about public corruption—what they can look for and how they can help—are invited to a free seminar entitled: Aware.Prepare.Prevent—Public Corruption, on Thursday, April 23, 2015, 4:00 p.m., at the Chesapeake Conference Center, 700 Conference Center Drive, Chesapeake. For more information about this seminar or to register in advance, please call (757) 609-2595 or e-mail vanessa.torres@ic.fbi.gov.
corruption WASHINGTON—Darren Malry, 52, a former corrections officer who worked for the Corrections Corporation of America (CCA), has been sentenced to 27 months in prison after earlier pleading guilty to a bribery charge for accepting money to smuggle contraband into the District of Columbia’s Correctional Treatment Facility. The sentencing was announced by U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen Jr.; Andrew G. McCabe, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office; and Thomas N. Faust, Director of the District of Columbia Department of Corrections. Malry, of Laurel, Md., pled guilty in October 2014 in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. He was sentenced on March 25, 2015, by the Honorable Colleen Kollar- Kotelly. After his prison term, Malry will be placed on two years of supervised release. According to the government’s evidence, Malry had worked for CCA as a corrections officer at the Correctional Treatment Facility. CCA, a private company, has a contract to provide services to the Correctional Treatment Facility. On March 11, 2014, Malry met with an undercover FBI agent who gave him a cellphone, cigarettes, and rolling papers for Malry to deliver to an inmate housed at the Correctional Treatment Facility. Malry also accepted $750 in cash at that meeting, given in exchange for Malry smuggling the contraband into the facility and delivering it to the inmate. Malry met again with the agent on April 21, 2014. At that meeting, the agent gave Malry cigarettes and several packages of a substance resembling marijuana. This time, Malry accepted $600 in cash, which was in exchange for Malry smuggling the contraband into facility for the same inmate. Malry subsequently was arrested. In a related investigation, another former Corrections Company of America officer at the Correctional Treatment Facility, Lenard Fleming, 34, pled guilty in November 2014, to a bribery charge. He was sentenced last week to 27 months in prison. In announcing the sentence, U.S. Attorney Machen, Assistant Director in Charge McCabe, and Director Faust commended the work of those who jointly worked the case, including agents from the FBI’s Washington Field Office, investigators from the District of Columbia Department of Corrections Office of Investigative Services, and investigators from the Corrections Corporation of America. They also commended the efforts of those who worked on the case from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, including Paralegal Specialists Donna Galindo, Corinne Kleinman, and Angela Lawrence; Assistant U.S. Attorneys Melinda Williams, Todd Gee, and former Assistant U.S. Attorney Justin Dillon, who assisted in the investigation, and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Catherine K. Connelly, Allessandra Stewart, Arvind Lal, and Tom Swanton, who assisted with forfeiture issues. Finally, they expressed appreciation for the work of Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard DiZinno, who prosecuted the case.
corruption TRENTON, NJ—An Essex County corrections officer was sentenced today to 18 months in prison for his involvement in a scheme to smuggle marijuana, cell phones and tobacco into the Essex County Correctional Facility, a federal pretrial detention facility, in exchange for cash bribe payments, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Stephon Solomon, 27, of Irvington, New Jersey, previously pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Mary L. Cooper in Trenton federal court to an information charging him with one count of conspiring to commit extortion under color of official right. Judge Cooper imposed the sentence today in Trenton federal court. According to the documents filed in this and other cases and statements made in court: On multiple occasions between October 2013 and May 2014, Solomon, a corrections officer at the Essex County Correctional Facility, smuggled contraband – including cell phones, tobacco, and marijuana – to Quasim Nichols, 29, a federal pretrial detainee, in exchange for cash bribes. Darsell Davis, 29, and Dwayne Harper, 30, friends of Nichols, aided in the smuggling scheme by collecting the contraband to be smuggled into the facility. Solomon received the contraband and cash bribes from Davis and then smuggled the contraband to Nichols, who ultimately sold some of the marijuana and cell phones to other inmates. The inmates purchasing marijuana and cell phones from Nichols had their friends and family pay for the items by sending Western Union money transfers to Nichols, who enlisted Davis and others to retrieve those payments for him. In addition to the prison term, Judge Cooper sentenced Solomon to three years of supervised release. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Richard M. Frankel in Newark, and investigators with the Internal Affairs Division of Essex County Correctional Facility, under the leadership of Warden Roy Hendricks, with the investigation leading to today’s sentencing. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Rahul Agarwal of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division and Rob Frazer of the Criminal Division, Organized Crime/Gangs Unit, in New Jersey.
corruption WASHINGTON—Neil S. Rodgers, a former District of Columbia government official, has been found guilty by a jury of first-degree fraud stemming from his role in channeling $110,000 in youth and drug prevention grant funds that were used to pay for an inaugural ball. The guilty verdict, which was returned March 16, 2015, by a jury in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, was announced by U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen Jr., Andrew G. McCabe, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office, and Thomas J. Kelly, Special Agent in Charge of the Washington Field Office of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation. The jury later acquitted Rodgers of one federal count of wire fraud and was unable to reach a verdict on one federal count of theft concerning programs receiving federal funds. At a hearing today, the Honorable Senior Judge John D. Bates denied a defense motion to dismiss the guilty verdict and scheduled sentencing for June 16, 2015. The charge of first-degree fraud, a District of Columbia offense, carries a statutory maximum of 10 year in prison. Rodgers, 62, of Washington, D.C., served as the Committee Director of the Council of the District of Columbia’s Committee on Libraries, Parks, Recreation and Planning. Before becoming Committee Director, Rodgers worked for many years at the District of Columbia Department of Parks and Recreation, serving as Chief of Staff and Acting Director. Six others have pled guilty to charges in the overall investigation, which focused on activities involving former Council Member Harry L. Thomas, Jr. Thomas pled guilty in January 2012 to charges stemming from a scheme in which he used more than $350,000 in taxpayers’ money that was earmarked for the arts, youth recreation, and summer programs for his own personal benefit, including paying for vehicles, clothing, and trips. He resigned in January 2012 as a condition of his plea agreement and recently completed serving a 38-month prison sentence. According to the government’s evidence, Rodgers aided Thomas in illegally securing funds for the 51st State Inaugural Ball, held on Jan. 20, 2009, at the Wilson Building. “Neil Rodgers was convicted of fraud by a D.C. jury for helping Harry Thomas steal money from children to throw a black-tie party in the Wilson Building,” said U.S. Attorney Machen. “This guilty verdict makes Neil Rodgers the seventh and final person to be convicted in connection with Harry Thomas’s crimes. This conviction makes clear that the citizens of the District of Columbia will not tolerate government employees who break the law to facilitate the corrupt dealings of elected officials. Public servants owe it to the taxpayers to stand up against crooked politicians, not to enable them.” “Public funds intended to improve the lives of District youth were illegally steered to host a party for the 2009 Presidential inauguration,” said Assistant Director in Charge McCabe. “Government officials are properly held to a higher standard of conduct and by undermining these laws they violated the integrity of our government. This verdict is a reminder to government officials that corruption will not be tolerated in our community—no matter the level, the amount, or the individuals involved.” Thomas directed one of his staffers to plan the ball to celebrate the inauguration of President Obama. The 51st State Inaugural Ball was sponsored by Thomas, other council members and a local chapter of a political organization which was run by Thomas’s staffer who planned the ball. Ticket sales and other contributions failed to raise enough money to pay the expenses associated with the ball. Following the ball, the vendors who provided services for the ball were owed approximately $100,000. Thomas asked Rodgers to help find funding for the money owed to the vendors. Thomas and Rodgers participated in a scheme to take money that was originally donated by D.C. taxpayers to the Children at Risk and Drug Prevention Fund to pay for the inaugural ball. After the ball was over, Thomas and Rodgers contacted the president of a public-private partnership that provided grants to children and youth of the district. Thomas and Rodgers falsely stated that the ball had been a youth event. The private-public partnership organization agreed to provide funding for the ball based on these representations. It also agreed to use the Children at Risk and Drug Prevention Fund money to pay for the ball. The Children at Risk and Drug Prevention Fund consisted of money that had accumulated at the D.C. Department of Parks and Recreation after years of tax donations by D.C. taxpayers. In 2008, the D.C. Council passed legislation that gave responsibility for distributing the money to the community to the public-private partnership organization. At the time of the ball, the money had not yet transferred to the public-private partnership. Rodgers used his influence to finalize the transfer of the money so that it could be used to pay for the inaugural ball. Rodgers then submitted false paperwork to the public-private partnership that described the inaugural ball as a youth event. Rodgers provided multiple copies of budgets and supporting narratives that misled the public-private partnership and resulted in the issuance of the Children at Risk and Drug Prevention Fund money to pay for the inaugural ball. In announcing the verdict, U.S. Attorney Machen, Assistant Director in Charge McCabe, and Special Agent in Charge Kelly commended the work of those who investigated the case from the FBI’s Washington Field Office and IRS-CI. They also acknowledged the work of those who worked on the case from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, including Paralegal Specialists Tasha Harris, Heather Sales, Jessica Mundi, and Ida Anbarian; Litigation Technology Specialists Joshua Ellen and Ron Royal; and former Assistant U.S. Attorneys Jonathan Haray, Bridget Fitzpatrick, James Smith, and David Johnson. Finally, they expressed appreciation for the work of Assistant U.S. Attorneys Matthew Graves and Michelle Zamarin, who prosecuted the case.
corruption COLUMBIA, SC—United States Attorney Bill Nettles stated today that former Williamsburg County Sheriff Michael L. Johnson, age 39, of Salters, South Carolina, and Lester L. Woods, age 49, of Columbia, South Carolina, were sentenced today for Conspiracy to Commit Wire Fraud, a violation of Title 18, U.S. C. §1349. Chief United States District Judge Terry L. Wooten sentenced Johnson to 30 months’ imprisonment and Woods to 33 months’ imprisonment. The Court also ordered restitution and imposed three years’ supervised release to follow the terms of imprisonment. Both were convicted in September 2014 after a four-day trial. Evidence presented at the trial established that Lester Woods held himself out as a credit repair specialist. People would come to him to raise their credit scores, sometimes paying him over $1,000. He then got in touch with former Sheriff Michael Johnson. Johnson would write up police reports, or incident reports, saying that a particular client of Woods had been a victim of identity theft in Williamsburg County. He would then send the incident report to Woods. Woods would often write out a cover page of accounts that supposedly were fraudulent, attach the incident report Johnson wrote, and fax it to Equifax. Once Equifax received the report, it relied on the information sent by Woods and Johnson as true and deleted those debts and other derogatory information from Woods’ clients’ credit history. When the bad debts were removed from the credit history, the credit score of the client would often go up. This made it more likely that the client could be extended credit or get more loans, but since the underlying debt often remained, the client was much more likely to default on the new debt. In all, Woods and Johnson caused to be suppressed over $11 million dollars in credit information. United States Attorney, Bill Nettles, stated “Abuse of public office is an abuse of public trust, which is illegal. Our office will continue to place these prosecutions at the top of our priority list.” The case was investigated by agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Winston Holliday of the Columbia office prosecuted the case.
corruption LAFAYETTE, LA—United States Attorney Stephanie A. Finley announced today that a Carencro Police officer pleaded guilty to receiving cash payments from James Panos, former owner and manager of Desperado’s Cabaret, while the officer was in charge of regulating exotic dancer permits for the Carencro Police Department, and during a time Desperado’s operated as an illegal enterprise. Timothy Prejean, 42, of Carencro, La., pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Richard T. Haik to interference with commerce by extortion under color of official right. According to evidence presented at the guilty plea, Prejean accepted cash payments from James Panos during the years Prejean processed and delivered exotic dancer licenses for Desperado’s employees. Additionally, Prejean failed to investigate reported illegal activity at Desperado’s from 2007 to December 5, 2012. The illegal activity involved prostitution in the VIP room and drug distribution/use inside the business. During this time, Prejean was assigned as the liaison officer between the Carencro Police Department and Desperado’s for the purpose of enforcing local ordinances pertaining to exotic dancer licensing and related regulations. Prejean improperly received a total of $10,000 in cash and other benefits from club owners James and Jennifer Panos while in performance of his regulatory duties. Other benefits included no cover charge to enter, free access to the VIP rooms, and free drinks. James Panos, Jennifer Panos, and eight other defendants were charged in a 10-count indictment on May 15, 2013, alleging racketeering conspiracy, drug conspiracy, and firearms charges. The charges are the result of an investigation of drug trafficking, drug distribution, prostitution, and other illegal activity that took place at Desperado’s Cabaret in Carencro located on Northeast Evangeline Thruway. “Timothy Prejean violated his oath of office and the public’s trust by failing to uphold the law and by taking cash payments from a corrupt business,” said Finley. “The people of Carencro deserve and expect more from their law enforcement officers. My Office will lead the charge in investigating and bringing to justice corrupt public officials.” James Panos, Jennifer Panos and the remaining defendants were sentenced on August 7, 2014. As part of the plea agreement, the owners agreed to forfeit illegal proceeds already seized, return proceeds illegally earned, and they agreed to forfeit the Desperado’s property to include the building and land. Prejean faces up to 20 years in prison, three years’ supervised release, and a $250,000 fine. A sentencing date was not set. The DEA, FBI, U.S. Department of Homeland Security Investigations, Louisiana State Police, and Lafayette Metro Narcotics investigated the case. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Myers P. Namie and Daniel J. McCoy prosecuted the case.
corruption JACKSON, MS—Lavonne Boose, 43, of Benton, appeared before U.S. Magistrate Judge Linda R. Anderson on March 23, 2015 for an arraignment pursuant to a Criminal Information charging her with providing contraband to a federal inmate, U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis and FBI Special Agent in Charge Donald Alway announced today. Boose, who was employed as a nurse at the Yazoo Federal Corrections Complex, is charged with providing the inmate with a telephone, in violation of federal law. This case is set for trial on May 5, 2015. If convicted, Boose faces a maximum penalty of one year in federal prison and a $100,000 fine. This case was investigated by the United States Department of Justice Office of Inspector General and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant U.S. Attorney Patrick Lemon is prosecuting the case.
corruption BALTIMORE, MD—U.S. District Judge Ellen L. Hollander sentenced former U.S. Postal Service station manager Richard Lewis Wright, III, age 47, of Baltimore, today to 40 months in prison followed by three years of supervised release for bribery in connection with a scheme to obtain U.S. Postal Service contracts in exchange for bribe payments. Judge Hollander also entered an order that Wright forfeit and pay restitution of $501,791. The sentence was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Paul Bowman of the U.S. Postal Service Office of Inspector General; and Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. According to his plea agreement and court documents, Wright was the USPS station manager of the Waverly Station in Baltimore. Co-defendant Kimberly Parnell was the USPS station manager of the Pikesville Station in Pikesville, Maryland. As a station manager, Wright and Parnell had authority to contract for landscaping, snow removal and cleaning services at the post offices they managed, and bill those services to USPS for payment. Beginning in 2007 for Wright and 2010 for Parnell, and continuing until July 2013, Wright and Parnell created, approved and submitted inflated invoices for maintenance work allegedly performed at their post offices. They split the proceeds with the providers of the services, including Shane Anderson and others. For example, Wright and Parnell initially accepted bribes from a co-conspirator who owned a landscaping company. In July 2013, after becoming increasingly frustrated with the co-conspirator’s slow payment of bribes, Parnell recruited Shane Anderson, who operated a landscaping company in Baltimore called Youthful Minds Lawn Care. The co-conspirators agreed that Wright and Parnell would submit inflated invoices from Youthful Minds Lawn Care for landscaping services in exchange for a percentage of the proceeds paid to Youthful Minds by the USPS. Similarly, beginning in August 2010, Wright also solicited and received bribes from Ladeena Sketers-Anderson, who operated Keep U Clean cleaning service. Sketers-Anderson received USPS payments, approved by Wright for services allegedly provided at Wright’s Post Office. Sketers-Anderson then issued checks to a cleaning company owned by Wright, which Wright cashed. In all, Wright submitted $591,791 worth of invoices in exchange for bribes. Kimberly A. Parnell, age 44, and Shane Anderson, age 38, both of Baltimore, and Ladena D. Sketers-Anderson, age 47, of Randallstown, Maryland, previously pleaded guilty to their roles in the scheme. Parnell, who admitted to submitting$50,470 worth of invoices in exchange for bribe payments, was sentenced to 20 months in prison. Both Shane Anderson and Ladena Sketers-Anderson were sentenced to 15 months in prison. The National Procurement Fraud Task Force was formed in October 2006 to promote the early detection, identification, prevention and prosecution of procurement fraud associated with the increase in government contracting activity for national security and other government programs. The Procurement Fraud Task Force includes the United States Attorneys’ Offices, the FBI, the U.S. Inspectors General community and a number of other federal law enforcement agencies. This case, as well as other cases brought by members of the Task Force, demonstrates the Department of Justice’s commitment to helping ensure the integrity of the government procurement process. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the USPS-Office of Inspector General and FBI for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant United States Attorney Leo J. Wise, who prosecuted the case.
corruption Former North Miami Mayor was sentenced by United States District Judge Robert N. Scola for her participation in a multi-million dollar mortgage fraud scheme. Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office, and Drew J. Breakspear, Commissioner, Florida Office of Financial Regulation, made the announcement. Following a federal jury trial, Marie Lucie Tondreau, a/k/a “Lucie Tondreau,” 54, of North Miami, was convicted of one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud and four counts of wire fraud. As shown at trial, between December 2005 and May 2008, Tondreau and her co-defendants Karl Oreste, 56, of Miramar, Florida, and Okechukwu Josiah Odunna, a/k/a “O.J. Odunna,” 49, of Lauderdale, Florida orchestrated a mortgage fraud scheme. Oreste, president of KMC Mortgage Corporation of Florida (KMC Mortgage), a mortgage lending business in North Miami Beach, identified residential properties in South Florida that were for sale. Oreste and Tondreau, who at the time was a community activist, hosted several radio show programs in the South Florida area in which they advertised the services offered by KMC Mortgage. Oreste and Tondreau recruited and paid some of the listeners who responded to those advertisements, as well as other individuals, to pose as borrowers to purchase properties identified by Oreste. Oreste, Odunna, and other co-conspirators prepared or caused to be prepared loan applications on behalf of straw borrowers recruited by Oreste and Tondreau. Odunna was an attorney, previously licensed to practice law in the State of Florida, and president of O.J. Odunna, P.A. and Direct Title and Escrow Services (Direct Title). The loan applications included false information relating to employment, wages, assets and the purchaser’s intent to maintain the purchased property as a primary residence. The loan applications and supporting documents were submitted by the co-conspirators to various mortgage lenders, throughout the United States. Once the loan applications were approved, Tondreau wired funds to O.J. Odunna, P.A., Direct Title, or other title companies for the closing costs. In some instances Oreste, Odunna and other co-conspirators created and submitted duplicate HUD-Settlement Statement Forms, which grossly inflated the true purchase price of the properties. The HUD-1 Settlement Statements also falsely represented to the mortgage lenders that the straw borrowers had met their down payment and cash to close obligations, when in truth and fact, the straw borrowers had never made any such payments. At closing, a portion of loan proceeds were disbursed to Oreste through his company, JR Investment and Mortgage Corporation, or other bank accounts he controlled. In some instances, a portion of the loan proceeds were diverted to accounts controlled by O.J. Odunna, P.A. and Direct Title. Oreste disbursed some of the proceeds that he received to pay recruiters, such as Tondreau and co-conspirator Kelly Augustin, and straw borrowers. Oreste also transferred a substantial portion of the funds to the bank account of LTO Investment Corporation, a company controlled by Tondreau. Tondreau used the deposited funds to make payments on the fraudulently obtained mortgages, maintain the loans and use the monies for her own personal benefit. Over the course of the mortgage fraud scheme, Tondreau was involved in obtaining 13 loans for which the lenders suffered approximately $8,000,000 in losses. Of the proceeds from the fraudulent scheme, more than $300,000 was deposited into Tondreau’s business account and an additional $100,000 into her personal bank accounts. Tondreau was sentenced to 65 months’ imprisonment, followed by five years of supervised release. A restitution hearing has been scheduled for Friday, May 22, 2015, before the Honorable Judge Scola. In February 2015, Oreste was sentenced to 100 months’ imprisonment, to be followed by five years of supervised release. Oreste was further ordered to pay $8,215,197.28 in restitution. Odunna and Augustin were indicted and remain fugitives. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI and Florida Office of Financial Regulation. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Lois Foster-Steers and Gera R. Peoples.
corruption ATLANTA—Former Dunwoody Police Detective Robert Pasquale Bentivegna has pleaded guilty to disclosing sensitive law enforcement information in exchange for receiving kickbacks for him and his family. “It is a sad day when a career law enforcement officer turns his back on decades of public service by selling his access to sensitive law enforcement information,” said Acting U.S. Attorney John Horn. “Bentivegna’s conduct undermines trust in law enforcement and could have exposed the public to significant harm.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated: “The FBI’s number one criminal investigative program remains that of public corruption due to the vast harm that it can cause. The guilty plea of former Dunwoody Det. Bentivegna illustrates the betrayal of the badge by a very seasoned law enforcement officer and the consequences that he now faces for this betrayal.” “Acts of corruption within the Department of Homeland Security represent a serious threat to our nation and undermines the integrity of all DHS employees, who strive to maintain the integrity of the Department. The Office of Inspector General and its law enforcement partners will continue to pursue allegations of corruption and hold such shameless individuals like Mr. Bentivegna accountable,” said James E. Ward, Special Agent in Charge, DHS-OIG. According to Acting U.S. Attorney Horn, the charges and other information presented in court: In July 2011, Bentivegna, a career law enforcement officer employed at the time with the Dunwoody, Georgia, Police Department and who had also served as a federal task force officer, began using an individual connected with a variety of illegal activities as a confidential informant. In exchange for valuable personal items for himself and his family, Bentivegna performed searches and informed the confidential informant about any active arrest warrants listed under the informant’s name in the Georgia Crime Information Center (“GCIC”) database. Such information can be valuable information to criminals, allowing them to flee before authorities can arrest them. In exchange, over the course of approximately 18 months, Bentivegna received airline tickets for himself and his wife to travel to New York, his daughter received a convertible car which she used for over a year, and his son received a car to drive for a period of time. Bentivegna, 64, of Woodstock, Georgia, pleaded guilty to computer fraud for accessing information in the GCIC database for an improper purpose. Sentencing is scheduled for June 1, 2015 before United States District Judge Leigh Martin May. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Department of Homeland Security—Office of the Inspector General. Assistant United States Attorney Garrett L. Bradford is prosecuting the case.
corruption TAMPA, FL—United States Attorney A. Lee Bentley, III announces that Stephany West (51, Bradenton) today pleaded guilty to theft of federal funds. She faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in federal prison. A sentencing date has not yet been set. According to the plea agreement, from June 2, 2008, until September 19, 2013, West, a/k/a “Stephany Shaw,” was employed as the Project Director of the Bradenton Housing Authority (“BHA”). The BHA is a local housing authority agency of the City of Bradenton and received $10,000 or more in federal funds from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development. Between September 2010 and September 2013, West was routinely absent from the BHA and engaged in non-BHA activities during work hours. She failed to take annual or sick leave for these absences, and accepted her regular salary for work. From September 2010 through September 2012, West was absent and engaged in non-BHA activities at least 25 percent of the time. Between September 2012 and September 19, 2013, West was absent and engaged in non-BHA activities approximately 50 percent of the time. In total, West stole and knowingly converted to her own use approximately $73,783. from the BHA by taking salary, benefits, and bonuses that she had not earned and to which she was not entitled. She stole another $30,767.60 by cashing out unused annual and sick leave, which she should have otherwise used while spending work hours attending to personal affairs. Thus, West’s actions caused a total loss to the BHA of approximately $104,550. This case was investigated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development—Office of Inspector General, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, and the Bradenton Police Department. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Jennifer L. Peresie.
corruption TEXARKANA, AR—Conner Eldridge, United States Attorney for the Western District of Arkansas, announced that Keesha Rose, age 37, of Lewisville, Arkansas, was sentenced today to 24 months in prison followed by three years of supervised release on one count of Theft Concerning Programs Receiving Federal Funds. Rose served as the County Treasurer and Tax Collector for Lafayette County. She was also ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $282,036.97. The Honorable Harry F. Barnes presided over the sentencing hearing in the United States District Court in Texarkana. U.S. Attorney Eldridge stated, “The conduct by this public official is shameful and a disgrace to all other public officials who are dedicated to the service to which they have been elected; such an abuse of public trust is offensive to other honest elected officers that are loyal to their positions. We remain committed to investigating and prosecuting those who embezzle public funds throughout the Western District of Arkansas.” “Arkansas deserves and is blessed with so many public servants who do the right things for the right reasons. However, corrupt public officials erode the trust necessary for our democracy to function,” stated Special Agent in Charge David T. Resch with the Little Rock FBI, “We appreciate our partnership with the United States Attorney’s Office and the Arkansas State Police as we continue to confront public corruption as a top priority in Arkansas.” According to court records, Keesha Rose was elected as Treasurer and Tax Collector for Lafayette County, Arkansas in November, 2010 and was responsible for collection and administration of all funds collected and disbursed on behalf of Lafayette County. Lafayette County received benefits in excess of $10,000 under a Federal program for the both 2011 and 2012. On May 31, 2013, The Arkansas Division of Legislative Audit reported that a comparison of cash receipts to cash bank deposits revealed that $162,275.00 was not deposited in the county’s bank accounts by Rose for a period of January 1, 2011 through September 20, 2012. The auditors noted numerous issues with accounting processes and recordkeeping that were consistent with the embezzlement of funds. In addition to the $162,275.00, auditors determined that for the time period between September 20, 2012 and November 7, 2013, an additional $81,618 in public funds was embezzled by Rose, bringing the total amount known prior Ms. Rose’s change of plea to $243,893.00. Rose pleaded guilty to the charge on October 29, 2014.Subsequent to Ms. Rose’s change of plea, auditors determined that for the time period between November 7, 2013 and April 30, 2014, and additional $38,143.97 in public funds was also embezzled, bringing the total amount of embezzled funds to $282,036.97. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Arkansas State Police. Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Ross prosecuted the case for the United States.
corruption A Maryland man was charged today in the District of Columbia with crimes arising out of his tampering with substantial quantities of drug evidence while working as a Special Agent with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), announced U.S. Attorney Zane David Memeger of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The 64-count information charges Matthew Lowry with 20 counts of obstruction of justice, 18 counts of falsification of records, 13 counts of conversion of property, and 13 counts of possession of heroin. Matthew Lowry, 33, of Upper Marlboro, Maryland, was assigned to the Washington, D.C. Field Office (WFO), and was a member of the Cross-Border Task Force (CBTF). As a member of the CBTF, the defendant participated in several large-scale investigations that resulted in numerous seizures of significant quantities of narcotics, including heroin. According to the information, in 2013 and 2014, the defendant tampered with heroin evidence seized during several of his investigations. As those investigations occurred within the District of Columbia and the districts surrounding it, those offices have been recused by the Department of Justice, and the prosecution is being conducted by the U.S. Attorney’s Office of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. In several instances, it is alleged that the defendant went to the WFO’s Evidence Control Center (ECC) and removed seized heroin from evidence, writing on a chain of custody record a false explanation for his taking of the evidence. The information alleges that over a period of several weeks or months, the defendant kept the heroin in his car and periodically ingested it. Before returning the heroin to the ECC or bringing it to a laboratory for testing, the defendant allegedly added to the heroin a measured amount of a cutting agent, either the supplement Creatine or the laxative Purelax, in order to account for the weight discrepancy resulting from his illegal usage; placed the altered heroin into a new evidence bag, on which he placed a new sticker signifying that the evidence bag had been sealed; copied the content written on the original sealing sticker to the new sealing sticker, forging the names or signatures of FBI agents who purportedly witnessed his sealing of the evidence; peeled off a barcode sticker from the original evidence bag and applied it to the new bag; and disposed of the original evidence bag and sealing sticker. The defendant also participated in many undercover, controlled purchases of heroin from targets in his investigations. Following several of these transactions, the defendant, rather than check the heroin into evidence as required, is alleged to have kept the heroin in his car for a period of several weeks or months, during which he periodically ingested it. Before checking the heroin into the ECC, it is alleged that the defendant added a cutting agent to account for the weight discrepancy resulting from his ingesting the heroin; placed sealing stickers on evidence bags and filled out all requested information except for the seizure and sealing dates, which he left blank; requested that another agent, who had no knowledge of the defendant’s improper motives, sign as the witnessing official the undated sealing stickers; and wrote on the sealing stickers the accurate date on which the drugs were seized but falsely indicated that the evidence was sealed that same day. Additionally, on one occasion, the defendant participated in an undercover, controlled purchase of heroin from a target, and in lieu of turning the heroin into evidence and documenting its seizure, the defendant allegedly ingested the heroin and never turned it into evidence. The FBI referred this matter to the Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General (DOJ-OIG), which initiated the investigation. The investigation has not identified any criminal conduct by other agents If convicted, the defendant faces at least 87 months in prison under the advisory guideline range calculated by the government, three years of supervised release, a fine of up to $16 million, and a $6,400 special assessment. The case was investigated by the DOJ-OIG, with assistance from the FBI as requested by the DOJ-OIG. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Kevin R. Brenner and Maureen McCartney. An information is an accusation. A defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption Two former City of Miami Public Service Aides (PSA) and four two truck drivers were arrested this morning for their alleged participation in a kickback/bribery scheme, in which the four tow truck drivers allegedly paid the PSAs thousands of dollars in a series of bribes over a multi-year period. In exchange for the payment, the PSAs allegedly provided to the drivers real-time accident location information that they had obtained from police computer software programs. Wifredo A. Ferrer, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, FBI, Miami Field Office, and Rodolfo Llanes, Chief, City of Miami Police Department (MPD), made the announcement. City of Miami PSA Aristides Paulino, 31, City of Miami PSA Keri Dixon, 27, Jesus Tello, 29,Reinaldo Martin Cruz, 30, Ronald Alfaro, 27, and Michael Perez, 22, were charged by complaint with conspiring to commit wire fraud and pay bribes related to local agencies receiving federal funds. According to the facts set forth in the complaint affidavit, the City of Miami has established a wrecker operator system for the purpose of protecting drivers and preventing corruption. For example, when a car is disabled because of an accident, the driver must call a tow company himself or herself, have his or her insurance company arrange a tow, or ask the responding officer or PSA to arrange a tow. If an officer or PSA is asked to arrange the tow, almost every police department, including MPD, has strict regulations on how that tow referral must be made. As further alleged, the information provided by PSAs Paulino and Dixon to tow truck operators Tello, Martin Cruz, Alfaro and Perez, and other unnamed co-conspirators, enabled the tow truck operators to arrive first at accident scenes, often times even before the arrival of law enforcement. Once there, the tow truck operators would illegally solicit stranded accident victims for towing and steer those victims to a particular collision repair business. The complaint also alleges that at the times when PSAs Paulino and Dixon were present at the accident locations, Paulino and Dixon actively assisted the tow truck operators in soliciting business from the stranded individuals. The particular collision repair business that profited from the illegal tows would then pay a kickback to the tow truck operators and PSAs so that they too would be enriched from their participation in the illegal scheme. “After an accident, individuals are concerned with their well-being and the well-being of the other accident victims. The two Public Service Aides and four tow truck drivers arrested today used these concerns to violate their positions for illicit profit,” said U.S. Attorney Wifredo Ferrer. “The residents of Miami have a choice. If you are in an accident and a tow truck operator that you have not called arrives, know that you have the right to refuse that operator’s service. As the charges filed today demonstrate, we are committed to unraveling this scheme to bring those who target accident victims to justice.” Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI Miami Area Corruption Task Force and the Internal Affairs Section of MPD. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Anthony Lacosta. A criminal complaint is only an accusation and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Southern District of Florida at http://www.flsd.uscourts.gov or on http://pacer.flsd.uscourts.gov.
corruption NEWNAN, GA—Jasen Minter and Louis E. Nock have each been sentenced to four years, nine months in prison for stealing more than $2.7 million from a United States Government bank account while they were on active duty in the United States Army stationed in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. “This was an egregious abuse of trust by two former U.S. Army soldiers who had access to millions of dollars of government money,” said Acting U.S. Attorney John Horn. “Their conduct betrayed their trust and honor as servicemembers and took substantial funds away from the United States Military Training Mission in Saudi Arabia.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated: “While the sentencing of both former U.S. Army Captain Jasen Minter and Sgt. First Class Louis Nock will finally hold them accountable for their criminal actions in stealing over two million dollars in government monies, it remains to be seen if they will be able to repay the government in spite of the fact that, as part of their sentencing, they are ordered by the court to do so. While both Minter and Nock were stationed in Saudi Arabia, their purpose as Finance Officers was to support the war fighter through the U.S. Military Training Mission. They, instead, literally sent boxes of U.S. cash back to the States for their own personal gain. This has been an extensive and protracted investigation initiated by the U.S. Army Criminal Investigative Division and the Department of Defense- Office of Inspector General. The FBI will continue to work with its military components in ensuring that U.S. funds designated for military use are used as intended and not diverted to personal bank accounts as was seen in this case.” “Instead of serving their country honorably while stationed overseas in a sensitive assignment, these two U.S. Army finance officers betrayed it by abusing their positions of trust and embezzling more than $2.7 million in American taxpayer funds,” said John F. Khin, Special Agent in Charge, Southeast Field Office, Defense Criminal Investigative Service. “This sentencing should serve as a constant reminder that DCIS and our law enforcement partners will relentlessly pursue corruption, fraud, and abuse within Department of Defense programs anywhere in the world, and bring violators to justice.” “This sentencing is another great example of the work our special agents do on a daily basis,” said Frank Robey, the director of the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command’s Major Procurement Fraud Unit. “The defendants attempted to profit by compromising the readiness of our servicemembers during a time of war, but this joint investigation unraveled their scheme and now they are being held responsible for betraying the trust placed in them.” According to Acting U.S. Attorney Horn, the charges and other information presented in court: Minter and Nock served as the Finance Officer and Deputy Finance Officer, respectively, for the United States Military Training Mission in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia from 2006 to 2007. As part of their duties in the Finance Office, Minter and Nock had access to a U.S. government bank account that was held at the Saudi American Bank. In June 2006, the defendants withdrew approximately $1.2 million in cash from the bank account and kept those funds for their own benefit. In August 2006, they made another withdrawal of more than $1.5 million in cash, and again kept the funds for their own use instead of returning them to the Finance Office. Before leaving Saudi Arabia, both defendants falsely affirmed in Finance Office records that there were no missing funds from the bank account. An audit conducted by the Department of Defense later revealed the theft of funds. Jasen Minter, 44, of Fayetteville, Georgia, has been sentenced to four years, nine months in prison to be followed by three years of supervised release, and ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $2,216,617.97. Minter was convicted on these charges on November 21, 2014, after he pleaded guilty. Louis E. Nock, 48, of Orlando, Florida, has been sentenced to four years, nine months in prison to be followed by three years of supervised release. He was also ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $2,216,617.97 to the United States Army. Nock was convicted of these charges on January 5, 2015, after he pleaded guilty. This case was investigated by the United States Army Criminal Investigation Division, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the United States Air Force Office of Special Investigations, and the Department of Defense, Office of the Inspector General. Assistant United States Attorney Jamie Mickelson prosecuted the case.
corruption ATLANTA—Elaine Boyer, former Commissioner of District 1 in DeKalb County, Georgia, has been sentenced for embezzling county funds and misusing her government credit card. “Elaine Boyer helped herself to over $75,000 in taxpayer funds which were intended to benefit and improve DeKalb County,” said Acting U.S. Attorney John A. Horn. “Instead, she used the money for things like her personal travel and for purchases at high-end department stores. The citizens of DeKalb County deserve to be represented by honest elected officials who put the interests of the public first.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated: “The sentencing of former Dekalb County Commissioner Boyer concludes a lengthy career serving the people of Dekalb County. In spite of her otherwise admirable service to her community, Ms. Boyer lost her way and crossed the line of the law, resulting in the end of her public service career and time in federal prison to reflect on it all.” According to Acting U.S. Attorney Horn, the charges, and other information presented in court: In DeKalb County, Georgia, the Board of Commissioners (“BOC”) serves as the legislative branch of the DeKalb County Government. The BOC is comprised of seven part-time commissioners, who are elected to serve four-year terms. Each of the seven Commissioners is responsible for the management of their respective offices, which includes controlling the offices’ budget and hiring staff members, contractors, and consultants. In recent years, the operating budget for a Commissioner’s office has been approximately $250,000 per year. The Commissioners may use their budget only for county-related business. In 1992, Ms. Boyer began serving as the Commissioner of District 1, which served citizens in north DeKalb County, including in Brookhaven, Dunwoody, Tucker, and Smoke Rise, Georgia. Among other responsibilities, Ms. Boyer sat on the BOC’s Finance, Budget, and Audit Committee and was the Chairwoman of the Employee Relations and Community Services Committee. Although Boyer’s term of office did not expire until 2016, she resigned on August 25, 2014, the day before she was charged in this case. In September 2009, as the Commissioner of District 1, Ms. Boyer retained an individual (“Advisor”) supposedly to assist her with government consulting and advisory duties on issues that affected her constituents. From September 2009 to November 2011, false invoices were submitted to Ms. Boyer’s office for consulting services purportedly rendered by the Advisor. In fact, the Advisor performed no services for Ms. Boyer, District 1 constituents, or DeKalb County. Ms. Boyer used the false invoices as a basis to authorize payments to the Advisor. Based on requisition requests from Ms. Boyer, DeKalb County issued approximately 35 checks to the Advisor for consulting services that were never performed. In total, DeKalb County paid the Advisor approximately $80,000, believing that legitimate services had been performed for the county. After being paid by DeKalb County, the Advisor funneled approximately 75% of the money received from DeKalb County into Ms. Boyer’s personal bank account. Between September 2009 and November 2011, the Advisor deposited approximately $60,000 in DeKalb County funds into Ms. Boyer’s personal bank account (while retaining the remainder of the money). In turn, Ms. Boyer used the money deposited into her account to pay personal expenses, including purchases at hotels and high-end department stores. Additionally, in her capacity as a Commissioner, DeKalb County issued Ms. Boyer a Visa Purchasing Card (“P-Card”) to make county-related purchases. On January 14, 2010, she signed a Cardholder Users’ Agreement stating she would not use the P-Card to make personal purchases. From October 2010 to February 2014, Ms. Boyer made more than 50 personal purchases on her P-Card, including purchasing airline tickets and hotel rooms for herself and her family for personal travel. In total, she made over $15,000 worth of purchases on her P-Card for personal goods and services. On September 3, 2014, Elaine Boyer, 58, of Stone Mountain, Georgia, pleaded guilty to one count of conspiring to commit mail fraud and one count of wire fraud. Today, Boyer was sentenced to one year, two months in prison to be followed by three years of supervised release, and ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $87,350. On February 20, 2015, Elaine Boyer’s husband, John Boyer, 62, of Stone Mountain, Georgia, also pleaded guilty to one count of conspiring to commit mail fraud. Mr. Boyer is scheduled to be sentenced on May 6, 2015, at 2:00 p.m., before the Honorable Orinda D. Evans. This case is being investigated by Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorneys Jeffrey W. Davis and Kurt R. Erskine are prosecuting the case.
corruption MEMPHIS, TN—Four Shelby County jailers were arrested late yesterday and early this morning on federal charges of attempting to smuggle OxyContin into the Shelby County Jail to provide to inmates. The four defendants are named in federal indictments returned yesterday. The indictments allege attempted possession with the intent to distribute OxyContin, a schedule II controlled substance. “As the indictments allege, these defendants participated in a scheme to accept bribes from inmates in exchange for violating the very laws they swore to uphold,” stated United States Attorney Edward Stanton III. “These individuals falsely believed that they were above the law, and now they are facing prison time behind the bars they once were responsible for guarding.” Those named in the indictments are: Anthony Thomas, 27, of Memphis, TN; Marcus Green, 33, of Covington, TN; Brian Grammer, 35, of Memphis, TN; and Torriano Vaughn, 28, of Cordova, TN. The indictments allege that the defendants devised a scheme to smuggle OxyContin, a schedule II controlled substance, into the Shelby County Jail located at 201 Poplar, Memphis, TN. The defendants would allegedly contact inmates and offer to smuggle illegal drugs into the Shelby County Jail for a predetermined amount of money. The defendants would then meet a third party affiliated with the inmate at a location within the Memphis metropolitan area. The third party would give the defendants what they believed was OxyContin and the defendants would accept the money in return. The contraband would then be smuggled into the Shelby County Jail and given to inmates. “Over a year ago we began a long term investigation regarding drugs being smuggled into our jail,” said Shelby County Sheriff Bill Oldham. “I want to thank the Tarnished Badge Task Force for their hard work. Special Agent Todd McCall for his support, U.S. Attorney Edward Stanton and in particular Assistant U.S. Attorney Brian Coleman for his guidance and counsel with this investigation. Also, Attorney General Amy Weirich for her assistance in this investigation as well. This activity will not be tolerated. The Sheriff’s Office will attack this with all of the resources available to us. Finally, to the other employees willing to violate their oath and put jailers at risk we will get you and prosecute you to the fullest extent of the law.” “Public corruption is the number one criminal priority of the FBI, and we will always work tirelessly with our law enforcement partners to root out those in a position of public trust who violate the law to line their own pockets,” said A. Todd McCall, Special Agent in Charge of the Memphis Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. “These indictments send the message that the bad acts of a small few will not be allowed to continue and impugn the reputation of those who honorably serve the public day-in and day-out.” The four defendants’ initial appearances will be held today. If they are convicted, they each would face a statutory maximum sentence of 20 years in federal prison. This case was investigated by the Tarnished Badge Task Force, which is comprised of investigators from the Shelby County Sheriff’s Office, Memphis Police Department and Federal Bureau of Investigation. The government’s case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Brian K. Coleman. The charges and allegations contained in indictments are merely accusations, and the defendants are considered innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption The former Police Chief of the Swinomish Tribe was indicted today by the grand jury for six counts of wire fraud and four counts of theft of tribal funds, announced Acting United States Attorney Annette L. Hayes. THOMAS J. SCHLICKER, 57, of Stanwood, Washington, served as the Swinomish Police Chief from 1997 until September 2014, when his employment was terminated. SCHLICKER is scheduled to appear for arraignment next week. According to the indictment, between 2008 and 2014, SCHLICKER is alleged to have embezzled more than $30,000 from the tribe. SCHLICKER allegedly set up a secret bank account in the name of the Swinomish Police Department without the knowledge of the tribal accounting department. The indictment alleges that SCHLICKER then deposited checks made out to the tribal police into the secret account and withdrew the proceeds in cash, which he then used for his own purposes. Some of the money deposited in the account came from the sale of vehicles seized and sold by the Tribal Police. The indictment also alleges SCHLICKER used the Tribe’s Chevron/Texaco credit card to purchase gas for his and his family members’ personal vehicles. Finally, the indictment alleges that SCHLICKER turned in paperwork asking to be reimbursed for the purchase of a uniform shirt, when in fact the charge was for an entry fee at a golf tournament. Wire fraud is punishable by up to twenty years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Theft of tribal funds is punishable by up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. The charges contained in the indictment are only allegations. A person is presumed innocent unless and until he or she is proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law. The case was investigated by the FBI and the Washington State Patrol. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Seth Wilkinson and Ye-Ting Woo. Press contact for the U.S. Attorney’s Office is Public Affairs Officer Emily Langlie at (206) 553-4110 or Emily.Langlie@usdoj.gov.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—Willie Singletary, 33, of Philadelphia, was sentenced today to 20 months in prison for lying to the FBI when questioned about ticket fixing at the former Philadelphia Traffic Court. A federal jury found Singletary guilty of the charge in July 2014 following a trial. Three of Singletary’s co-defendants—Michael Lowry, Robert Mulgrew, and Thomasine Tynes—were convicted of committing perjury before the federal grand jury; and co-defendants H. Warren Hogeland, Kenneth Miller, Fortunato Perri, William Hird, and Henry P. Alfano pleaded guilty prior to trial. In addition to the prison term, U.S. District Court Judge Lawrence Stengel ordered one year of supervised release, a fine of $1,500, and a special assessment of $100. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Denise S. Wolf and Anthony J. Wzorek.
corruption GAINESVILLE, GA—Austin Herring has been arraigned on federal charges of accepting bribes and conspiring to possess with intent to distribute cocaine in relation to his efforts to smuggle cocaine into the Hall County Jail. Herring was indicted by a federal grand jury on March 3, 2015. “This former corrections officer allegedly accepted bribes on two occasions to smuggle what he believed to be cocaine into the Hall County Jail,” said Acting U.S. Attorney John Horn. “We are committed to doing what we can to eradicate drugs and other contraband from jails. Jails are the single place above all others where citizens should have confidence that the inmates are no longer breaking the law.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated: “The FBI takes all allegations of public corruption within law enforcement very seriously and acted on its investigation involving former Hall County Detention Officer Herring promptly. While these cases are disheartening to those working them, it should be noted that the vast majority of those in law enforcement are dedicated to their sworn oaths of office. The FBI would like to thank Hall County Sheriff Gerald Couch and his staff for their understanding and cooperation during this investigation.” According to Acting U.S. Attorney Horn, the charges, and other information presented in court: Herring was employed as a jailer with the Hall County Sheriff’s Office. On two occasions in February 2015, Herring was paid $500 to take a package he was told contained cocaine to an inmate inside the jail. After Herring delivered each package to the inmate who was cooperating with the investigation, the inmate then turned the package over to investigators. Herring did not open or tamper with either package, but on each occasion he was specifically told by the person who gave it to him that the package contained cocaine from Mexico. In actuality, neither package contained a controlled substance. Herring, 19, of Murrayville, Georgia, was arraigned March 16, 2015, before United States Magistrate Judge J. Clay Fuller. He was arrested on these charges on February 20, 2015. Members of the public are reminded that the indictment only contains charges. The defendant is presumed innocent of the charges and it will be the government’s burden to prove the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt at trial. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation with assistance from the North Georgia Major Offenders Task Force and the Hall County Sheriff’s Office. Assistant United States Attorney William L. McKinnon, Jr. is prosecuting the case.
corruption WASHINGTON—Lenard Fleming, 34, a former corrections officer who worked for the Corrections Corporation of America (CCA), was sentenced today to 27 months in prison after earlier pleading guilty to a bribery charge for accepting money to smuggle contraband into the District of Columbia’s Correctional Treatment Facility. The sentencing was announced by U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen Jr.; Andrew G. McCabe, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office; and Thomas N. Faust, Director of the District of Columbia Department of Corrections. Fleming, of District Heights, Md., pled guilty in November 2014 in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia to one count of bribery. He was sentenced by the Honorable Ketanji Brown Jackson. Upon completion of his prison term, Fleming will be placed on two years of supervised release. According to the government’s evidence, Fleming had worked for the Corrections Corporation of America (CCA) as a corrections officer at the Correctional Treatment Facility. CCA, a private company, has a contract to provide services to the D.C. Jail. During the investigation, the FBI recovered contraband from an inmate at the Correctional Treatment Facility in January 2014. Fleming admitted that he smuggled items for the same inmate through that inmate’s contacts outside of the Correctional Treatment Facility. Fleming received cash payments in exchange for smuggling cigarettes and, on one occasion, an iPhone, into the Correctional Treatment Facility for delivery to the inmate. Fleming was terminated by CCA in February 2014 following a complaint that he was smuggling contraband into the facility for another inmate. CCA was presented with allegations that Fleming met several times with the wife of another inmate. On each occasion, the inmate’s wife provided Fleming cash in exchange for Fleming smuggling cigarettes and synthetic marijuana into the facility and delivering it to the inmate. Fleming was arrested April 30, 2014. In a related investigation, another former corrections officer at the Correctional Treatment Facility, Darren Malry, 52, pled guilty in October 2014, to a bribery charge. According to the government’s evidence, on March 11, 2014, Malry smuggled contraband into the facility for an inmate. Malry was arrested that day. Malry is to be sentenced March 25, 2015. In announcing the sentence, U.S. Attorney Machen, Assistant Director in Charge McCabe, and Director Faust commended the work of those who jointly worked the case, including agents from the FBI’s Washington Field Office, investigators from the District of Columbia Department of Corrections Office of Investigative Services, and investigators from the Corrections Corporation of America. They also commended the efforts of those who worked on the case from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, including Paralegal Specialists Donna Galindo, Corinne Kleinman, and Angela Lawrence; Assistant U.S. Attorneys Melinda Williams, Todd Gee, and former Assistant U.S. Attorney Justin Dillon, who assisted in the investigation, and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Catherine K. Connelly, Allessandra Stewart, and Arvind Lal, who assisted with forfeiture issues. Finally, they expressed appreciation for the work of Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard DiZinno, who prosecuted the case.
corruption Earlier today, a criminal complaint was unsealed charging Yehuda Katz, a New York City Police Department (NYPD) Auxiliary Deputy Inspector assigned to the 70th Precinct in Brooklyn, with executing a scheme to hack into a restricted NYPD computer and other sensitive law enforcement databases. The defendant was arrested earlier this morning and will have his initial appearance this afternoon at the U.S. Courthouse, 225 Cadman Plaza East, Brooklyn, New York, before United States Magistrate Judge James Orenstein. The charges and arrest were announced by Loretta E. Lynch, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, Diego G. Rodriguez, Assistant Director-in-Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), New York Field Office, and William J. Bratton, Commissioner of the New York City Police Department. “The defendant allegedly used his position as an auxiliary officer to hack into restricted computers and networks in order to obtain the personal information of thousands of citizens in a scheme to enrich himself through fraud,” stated United States Attorney Lynch. “The threat posed by those who abuse positions of trust to engage in insider attacks is serious, and we will continue to work closely with our law enforcement partners to vigorously prosecute such attacks.” Ms. Lynch expressed her grateful appreciation to the FBI and the NYPD’s Internal Affairs Bureau, which worked together closely to investigate the case. “As alleged, Katz illegally accessed sensitive law enforcement computer systems for his own personal gain. This type of behavior betrays the public’s trust and cannot be tolerated. We entrust our public servants to safeguard confidential information and not prey upon victims, and we will continue to work with our partners to prosecute those who engage in this type of criminal activity,” stated FBI Assistant Director-in-Charge Rodriguez. “This case is a clear example of the collaborative effort between federal prosecutors, the FBI, and the NYPD’s Internal Affairs Bureau to weed out individuals who allegedly violate the Department’s trust,” said Police Commissioner Bratton. According to the complaint, the defendant surreptitiously installed multiple electronic devices in the Traffic Safety Office of the NYPD’s 70th Precinct that allowed him to remotely access restricted NYPD computers and law enforcement databases, including one maintained by the FBI, that he did not have permission to access. One of the electronic devices installed by the defendant contained a hidden camera that captured a live image of the Traffic Safety Office and was capable of live-streaming that image over the Internet. The second electronic device was connected to one of the computers in the Traffic Safety Office and allowed the computer to be accessed and controlled remotely. As alleged in the complaint, investigators with the NYPD’s Internal Affairs Bureau and the FBI determined that the devices had been used to allow the defendant to remotely log onto an NYPD computer using usernames and passwords belonging to NYPD uniformed officers. Thereafter, the defendant ran thousands of queries in databases, including a restricted law enforcement database maintained by the FBI, for information, including the personal identifying information of victims, related to traffic accidents in the greater New York City area. The complaint further alleges that, after the defendant accessed the NYPD computer and law enforcement databases, he contacted individuals who had been involved in traffic accidents and falsely claimed to be, among others, an attorney with the fictitious “Katz and Katz law firm” who could assist them with potential legal claims. Letters sent by the defendant to accident victims included claims such as “I can advise you with 100% confidence that I can resolve this claim in your favor,” and “My fee is 14 percent only when you collect. And I know that you will collect.” All told, according to the complaint, between May and August 2014, the defendant ran over 6,400 queries in sensitive law enforcement databases that he accessed remotely via the compromised NYPD computer for information related to traffic accidents. The charges in the complaint are merely allegations, and the defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. If convicted, the defendant faces a maximum sentence of 10 years. The government’s case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Samuel P. Nitze and Peter W. Baldwin, with assistance provided by the Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section of the Department of Justice. The Defendant: YEHUDA KATZ Age: 45 Brooklyn, New York Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption GREENBELT, MD—George Joseph Grillo, age 64, of Upper Marlboro, Maryland pleaded guilty today to wire fraud and money laundering conspiracy arising from a scheme to make it appear that a minority business enterprise (MBE) performed work on Washington Suburban Sanitary Commission (WSSC) contracts, when in fact, the MBE had not performed the work. The guilty plea was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and Special Agent in Charge Thomas J. Kelly of the Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation, Washington, D.C. Field Office. According to the plea agreement, in 2009 and 2010 a non-minority-owned water tank painting company (Company 1) obtained three contracts with the WSSC to paint and repair water tanks or equipment: the Falls Road standpipe contract, the Carole Highlands tank contract and the Hampshire Green contract. The combined value of the three contracts was $2,390,177. Each contract required Company 1 to subcontract 28% or 29% of the contract’s value to certified MBEs or small local business enterprises. The required percentage of the contract, which in this case totaled $679,965.20, was to be paid directly to the MBE. According to his plea agreement, Grillo was a certified public accountant and from 2002 through 2014 was the chief financial officer of a minority business enterprise that operates as a construction company, and a recycling company. Since the 1980’s Grillo had performed accounting work for the owner of Company 1, including preparation of tax returns, payroll for the company, and financial statements. Grillo admits that from 2010 to 2014, he conspired with others to make it appear that Company 1 met its minority subcontracting requirements on the WSSC contracts. For example, the owner of Company 1 directed Grillo to send invoices from his minority-owned company indicating that the company had provided materials on two contracts. Grillo created invoices indicating that his company had provided $78,000 worth of materials on the Falls Road contract and $30,000 worth of materials on the Carole Highlands contract. As directed by the owner of Company 1, these invoices were submitted to another minority subcontractor working with Company 1. In fact, neither Grillo’s company, nor the other minority-owned subcontractor had purchased any materials related to these invoices. To make the fake invoices appear authentic, on June 30, 2011, a check was issued to Grillo’s company for $108,000. On July 5, 2011, Grillo issued a check from his company to Company 1 for $106,920. In 2010, Grillo agreed that his company would serve as the MBE for Company 1 on the Hampshire Green contract. In 2011, although Grillo’s company had not performed any work on the contract, Grillo caused his company to submit an invoice to WSSC for 28% of the Hampshire Green contract, or $57,504.88, to conceal the fact that Company 1 had not met its contractual obligation to subcontract 28% to an MBE. Again, to make it appear that Grillo’s company had performed the work, Company 1 issued a check for $57,504.88 to Grillo’s company, and a short time later, Grillo’s company issued a check back to Company 1 for $58,291.81. The conspiracy involved between $1 million and $2.5 million of laundered funds. Grillo faces a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison. U.S. District Judge George J. Hazel has scheduled sentencing for June 29, 2015 at 10:00 a.m. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein commended the FBI and IRS-CI for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Special Assistant U.S. Attorney James I. Pearce and Assistant U.S. Attorney Mara Zusman Greenberg, who are prosecuting the case.
corruption ALBUQUERQUE—U.S. Attorney Damon P. Martinez, Special Agent in Charge Carol K.O. Lee of the FBI’s Albuquerque Division, and Chief Pete N. Kassetas of the New Mexico State Police (NMSP) announced today that Vidal Sandoval, 45, a Deputy of the Colfax County Sheriff’s Office who resides in Cimarron, N.M., has been indicted for aiding and abetting a drug trafficking crime. Sandoval made his initial appearance on the indictment in federal court in Albuquerque, N.M., this afternoon, and was remanded into federal custody pending an arraignment and detention hearing which is scheduled for Monday, March 16, 2015. Sandoval is charged in an indictment that was filed under seal on March 10, 2015, and was unsealed earlier today after he was arrested by the FBI and NMSP. The indictment alleges that on Feb. 28, 2015, Sandoval aided and abetted an attempt to possess cocaine with intent to distribute in Colfax County, N.M. The indictment includes forfeiture provisions seeking a money judgment in the amount of at least $19,500.00, the proceeds Sandoval allegedly obtained as a result of his unlawful conduct. According to affidavits submitted in support of court-approved search warrants that were executed following Sandoval’s arrest, the investigation into Sandoval began in summer 2014, after two men reported to the NMSP that a law enforcement officer allegedly seized marijuana and cash from them during a traffic stop without giving them a receipt for the marijuana or money. Investigation by the NMSP identified Sandoval as the officer allegedly involved in the traffic stop. The affidavits allege that from Dec. 2014 through Feb. 2015, the FBI and NMSP deployed undercover agents into areas of Colfax County that Sandoval was known to patrol. During that time, Sandoval allegedly conducted traffic stops on the undercover agents’ vehicles on three occasions during which he allegedly offered to escort the undercover agents through Colfax County with drugs and currency in exchange for a portion of their drug profits. In Feb. 2015, Sandoval allegedly agreed to escort an undercover agent with a load of drugs through Colfax County. On Feb. 28, 2015, Sandoval allegedly accepted cash for escorting the undercover agent, who was driving a vehicle containing cocaine, from Colfax County to the New Mexico/Colorado border. If convicted of the offense charged in the indictment, Sandoval faces a mandatory minimum five years and a maximum of 40 years in federal prison. Charges in indictments are merely accusations and defendants are presumed innocent unless found guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. This case was investigated by the Santa Fe and Albuquerque offices of the FBI and the New Mexico State Police, and the Colfax County Sheriff’s Office is cooperating in the ongoing investigation. Assistant U.S. Attorney Sean J. Sullivan is prosecuting the case.
corruption INDIANAPOLIS—Josh J. Minkler, United States Attorney, announced today that federal criminal charges have been filed against a former office manager for the City of Bloomington Parks and Recreation Department. Judith A. Seigle, 51, of Gosport, Indiana, was indicted by a federal grand jury on a wire fraud charge alleging that Seigle executed a scheme to steal over $400,000 in funds intended for Parks Department projects and programs. “The citizens of Bloomington deserve better from their paid city employees,” said Minkler. “This is the second employee in less than one year charged with stealing city funds. Public officials need to serve the public and not serve themselves. The projects and programs of the Park’s Department exist to benefit the citizens of Bloomington. The indictment alleges that Defendant Seigle used funds intended for the parks as a piggy bank to benefit herself.” Seigle, in her position as office manager, was responsible for maintaining certain books and records for the Parks Department as well as books and records for the Bloomington Community Parks and Recreation Foundation, a 501(c)(3) charitable organization, which exists to provide support for Bloomington’s parks and community programs. The indictment alleges that from approximately 2001 to October 2014, she diverted, embezzled, and misappropriated approximately $430,000 in funds from the Foundation and Parks Department for her personal use and benefit. It is alleged that Seigle used Foundation credit cards to make purchases for her personal use and that she caused numerous funds transfers from Foundation and Parks Department bank accounts to her personal bank and credit card accounts. It is further alleged that, to conceal her fraudulent scheme, Seigle created false bank statements and, for several years on a monthly basis, provided them to the Foundation’s executive director and others. According to Senior Litigation Counsel Steve DeBrota and Assistant United States Attorney Nick Linder, who are prosecuting this case for the United States, Seigle faces up to 20 years in prison if convicted. An indictment is only a charge and not evidence of guilt. A defendant is presumed innocent and is entitled to a fair trial at which time the government must prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. The investigation was conducted by the FBI and the Bloomington Police Department, with assistance from the Monroe County Prosecutor’s Office. Separately, Justin Wykoff, former Manager for Engineering Services for the City of Bloomington, pled guilty in federal court today to 11 counts of wire fraud for receiving kickbacks from the operators of a local concrete company and awarding City contracts to the company. In pleading guilty, Wykoff admitted that he was responsible for bidding and awarding contracts for public works projects in the City, like road paving and sidewalk construction. Between April 2011 to February 2014, Wykoff solicited and received substantial cash bribes and kickbacks from Roger Hardin and Zach Hardin, who operated a company called Reliable Concrete and Construction. In exchange for the kickbacks, Wykoff assisted the Hardins in obtaining over $800,000 in City construction contracts and payments for Reliable Concrete. Wykoff estimated project costs and prepared bid proposals, using his inside information to ensure Reliable Concrete was the low bidder. In some cases, Wykoff awarded City contracts to Reliable Concrete outright without obtaining bids from other contractors. Wykoff also authorized City payments to Reliable Concrete totaling approximately $807,000. Of that amount, approximately $300,000 was for work that was never completed by Reliable Concrete. Wykoff and the Hardins took steps to conceal their scheme by creating false Reliable Concrete bid proposals after the fact. On February 17, 2014, Wykoff went to Roger Hardin’s home and created multiple bid proposal forms for projects that the City of Bloomington had already paid Reliable Concrete for—even though Reliable Concrete had not performed the work. The forms were backdated to coincide with the dates that the work was supposed to have taken place. Wykoff initialed or signed these forms as if he had approved the bids and then planted copies of the forms in his office in an attempt to further conceal the scheme. FBI Special Agent in Charge W. Jay Abbott stated, “Public corruption is one of the FBI’s top investigative priorities and FBI Agents remain committed to pursuing those individuals that violate the public’s trust.” According to Senior Litigation Counsel Steve DeBrota and Assistant United States Attorney Nick Linder, who are prosecuting the case for the government, if the court accepts Wykoff’s plea agreement, the court could impose a sentence of imprisonment of between 51 and 63 months and order full restitution of $446,335.26 to the City of Bloomington. The court, however, has the authority to make the final determination of the sentence. The investigation was conducted by the FBI and the Bloomington Police Department.
corruption ST. LOUIS, MO—An indictment was unsealed earlier today charging former St. Louis City Police Officer Don McGhee with providing a firearm to known drug dealers to facilitate their distribution of crack cocaine and marijuana in the City of St. Louis. According to the indictment, McGhee was a St. Louis Metropolitan Police Officer, assigned as a Patrolman in the Sixth District. The indictment alleges that Officer McGhee knew and associated with individuals who stored and distributed quantities of crack cocaine and marijuana in and from a house located in the 3800 block of Cottage Avenue, in the City of St. Louis. On March 2, 2014, Officer McGhee took a Mossberg 12 gauge pistol grip shotgun to the Cottage Avenue drug house and gave it to one of the drug dealers knowing, believing, or having reason to believe that the drug dealer would use the shotgun in relation to and in furtherance of the drug trafficking. During the execution of a search warrant at the Cottage Avenue house several days later, law enforcement officers recovered the Mossberg pistol grip shotgun, fully loaded, along with several other firearms, ammunition, quantities of crack cocaine and marijuana, and a large amount of cash. McGhee, 28, St. Louis City, was indicted yesterday by a federal grand jury on one felony count of conspiracy to possess a firearm in relation to a drug trafficking crime. Officer McGhee surrendered to authorities this morning, and appeared for arraignment at 2:30 today before United States Magistrate Judge Nanette Baker. If convicted, this charge carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and/or fines up to $250,000. In determining the actual sentence, a judge is required to consider the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines, which provide recommended sentencing ranges. United States Attorney Richard Callahan noted that this investigation originated with the St. Louis City Police Department which then partnered with additional law enforcement agencies as its investigation expanded. In addition to the St. Louis City Police Department, the case is also being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the United States Drug Enforcement Administration, and the St. Louis Circuit Attorney’s Office. Assistant United States Attorney Hal Goldsmith is handling the case for the U.S. Attorney’s Office. As is always the case, charges set forth in an indictment are merely accusations and do not constitute proof of guilt. Every defendant is presumed to be innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption CHARLESTON, WV—United States Attorney Booth Goodwin announced that Russell R. Grimmett, also known as Rick Grimmett, 51, of Man, West Virginia, was sentenced today to five years’ federal probation, including six months of home confinement, for violating federal banking laws. Grimmett is the former Logan County assessor. The sentence was handed down by United States District Judge Thomas E. Johnston. Banks are required by federal law to report all cash transactions in excess of $10,000. Grimmett admitted that he and an associate withdrew cash from the Logan Bank and Trust in Man, West Virginia, in amounts less than $10,000 to prevent triggering the reporting requirement. This practice, known as “structuring,” is a federal crime. Grimmett further admitted that between early 2009 and December 2012, he and his associate structured more than $366,000 in cash from various banks. As part of his plea agreement, Mr. Grimmett agreed to resign his position as assessor. He also agreed to forfeit $150,000. Today’s charge stems from an investigation conducted by the FBI, IRS Criminal Investigation, United States Postal Inspection Service, and the West Virginia State Police. Assistant United States Attorney Meredith George Thomas is handling the prosecution.
corruption BALTIMORE, MD—U.S. District Judge Ellen L. Hollander sentenced former correctional officers Kimberly Dennis, age 27, and Antonia Allison, age 29, both of Baltimore, Maryland to 24 months and 20 months in prison, respectively, each followed by two years of supervised release, for a racketeering conspiracy in which they smuggled drugs and other contraband for members of the Black Guerilla Family (BGF) gang inside several correctional facilities. Dennis was sentenced today and Allison was sentenced on March 10, 2015. The sentences were announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Secretary Stephen T. Moyer of the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services; Baltimore Police Commissioner Anthony W. Batts; and Baltimore City State’s Attorney Marilyn J. Mosby. According to court documents, BGF has been the dominant gang at the Baltimore City Detention Center (BCDC), and in several connected facilities, including the Baltimore Central Booking Intake Center, the Women’s Detention Center, which houses many men, and in the Jail Industries Building. Tavon White and other BGF leaders and members incarcerated at BCDC were involved with and often directed the smuggling of contraband into BCDC, including cell phones, tobacco and drugs, through the services of correctional officers (CO’s), who received payments, gifts or a share of the profits. According to her plea, Kimberly Dennis worked as a Correctional Officer (CO) at Baltimore City Detention Center (BCDC) from 2006 to 2013. She entered into personal and sexual relationships with two inmates who were members of the Black Guerilla Family (“BGF). Dennis smuggled contraband, including marijuana, tobacco and prescription pills, into BCDC on behalf of BGF inmates, who would then sell that contraband to other BCDC inmates who were members of BGF. Allison admitted she also smuggled contraband, including prescription pills and marijuana, into BCDC for eventual distribution by inmates with the BGF. Dennis and Allison were aware of the inmates’ BGF affiliation and assisted in furthering the racketeering enterprise. Dennis and Allison worked with other CO’s to assist in the smuggling and were aware that other co-defendants and correctional officers also smuggled contraband and were involved in sexual relationships. Forty of the 44 defendants charged in the racketeering conspiracy have been convicted, including 24 correctional officers. Thirty-five defendants pleaded guilty; five defendants were convicted after trial. Three defendants were acquitted and one defendant died. Inmate Tavon White, a/k/a Bulldog and Tay, age 37, of Baltimore was sentenced to 12 years in prison. U.S. Attorney Rosenstein recognized the efforts of the other members of the Maryland Prison Task Force, including: the Maryland State Police, Prince George’s County Police Department, United States Marshals Office, DEA, Washington-Baltimore High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area and Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI, Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services, Baltimore Police Department, and Maryland Prison Task Force, for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant United States Attorneys Robert R. Harding and Ayn B. Ducao, who prosecuted this Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force case.
corruption ALEXANDRIA, VA—James Glenn Warner, 44, of Manassas, Virginia, waived indictment and pleaded guilty to soliciting a $500,000 bribe from executives working for a private company on a contract that Warner managed out of the Pentagon. According to court documents, in October 2014, Warner made arrangements to meet with two executives of Company A, a Virginia-based company which held a five-year contract with the Department of the Army worth up to $120 million. At the meeting, which took place at a restaurant located in the Pentagon Centre in Arlington, Virginia, Warner instructed the two executives to communicate with him by typing messages into his cell phone, which was passed around the table. Warner then passed a menu to the two executives. Inside the plastic covering for the center section of the menu was a piece of paper which outlined a bribe and extortion solicitation, suggesting that if Company A paid $500,000 it would secure a contract renewal from the Department of the Army and that alleged damaging information about Company A would be destroyed. The Company A executives declined Warner’s solicitation, reported the conduct and began cooperating with law enforcement agents. Acting at the direction of law enforcement, a Company A executive then met with Warner on five subsequent occasions, paying Warner a total of $150,000 cash bribes out of the total $500,000 solicited by Warner. On January 28, 2015, at the last of these meetings, Warner was arrested while in possession of $100,000 in bribe payments. Warner faces a maximum penalty of 15 years in prison, up to a $1.5 million fine, and mandatory forfeiture of criminal proceeds when he is sentenced on June 19, 2015. The maximum statutory sentence is prescribed by Congress and is provided here for informational purposes, as the sentencing of the defendant will be determined by the court based on the advisory Sentencing Guidelines and other statutory factors. Dana J. Boente, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia; Andrew G. McCabe, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office; Robert E. Craig, Special Agent in Charge, Mid Atlantic Field Office, Defense Criminal Investigative Service; and Frank Robey, Director, Major Procurement Fraud Unit, 701st Military Police Group, U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command, made the announcement after the plea was accepted by U.S. District Judge Leonie M. Brinkema. This case was investigated by the FBI’s Washington Field Office, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, and the U.S. Army Criminal Investigative Command. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Kosta S. Stojilkovic and Mark D. Lytle are prosecuting the case. Any person who believes they may have information regarding public corruption in the Northern Virginia area is encouraged to call the FBI’s Northern Virginia Public Corruption Hotline at 703-686-6225. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia.
corruption JACKSONVILLE, FL—United States Attorney A. Lee Bentley, III announces the unsealing of an indictment charging Orange Park residents Paul Reynolds Friel, Jr. (47) and Marisol Del Carmen Rodriguez Chavarria (39) with conspiracy to commit visa fraud. Additionally, Friel has been charged with four separate counts of making a materially false statement. If convicted on all counts, Friel faces a maximum penalty of 25 years in federal prison. Rodriguez faces a maximum penalty of five years in prison. According to the indictment, Friel was an officer with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, which is part of the Department of Homeland Security. The indictment alleges that beginning in September 2007, he conspired with Rodriguez, a citizen of Nicaragua, for her to enter into a sham marriage with another man. That individual, Luis Aguilar, has been charged separately in another case. Friel allegedly conspired with Rodriguez and Aguilar to make false representations in applying for a visa that would enable Rodriguez to travel to the United States as Aguilar’s spouse. Friel paid for air travel for Aguilar and himself for the wedding of Aguilar to Rodriguez, which occurred in Nicaragua in January 2008. He also paid for Aguilar’s air travel to attend a visa interview in Nicaragua in November 2010, and for Rodriguez’s air travel to Florida in December 2010, after she was issued a visa. The indictment alleges that Friel assisted Rodriguez and Aguilar in filling out immigration forms, and that he loaned $3,500 to Aguilar in order to falsely portray Aguilar’s financial condition in an affidavit submitted to the State Department. Additionally, Friel coached Aguilar on what questions might be asked of him at the visa interview in order to detect relationship fraud. In December 2010, Rodriguez was issued a visa that enabled her to travel to the United States as Aguilar’s spouse. However, the indictment alleges that in or around March 2011, she moved in with Friel and that they had a romantic relationship. Subsequently, Rodriguez and Friel were married. Friel is also charged with making materially false statements, including during a background investigation for a national security clearance. It is alleged that in December 2011, he failed to disclose his relationship with Rodriguez as his cohabitant, and failed to disclose his contact with her during the preceding seven years, as a foreign national, in connection with a background investigation done by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and Office of Personnel Management. Rodriguez is a resident alien, not a U.S. citizen. An indictment is merely a formal charge that a defendant has committed one or more violations of federal criminal law, and every defendant is presumed innocent unless, and until, proven guilty. On March 12, 2015, Friel and Rodriguez made their initial appearance before United States Magistrate Judge Patricia D. Barksdale. They were released on bond. An arraignment for Friel and Rodriguez has been scheduled for March 16 and 17, 2015, respectively. This case was investigated by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Office of Inspector General, and the Jacksonville office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It will be prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Dale Campion.
corruption CORPUS CHRISTI, TX—A former Mexican political appointee from the State of Tamaulipas, Mexico, has been indicted for conspiring to launder monetary instruments, conspiracy to commit bank fraud and two counts of bank fraud, announced U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson. Pablo Zarate Juarez is the former Instituto Tamaulipeco De Vivienda Y Urbanismo (ITAVU) director in the State of Tamaulipas, Mexico. The criminal indictment, returned yesterday, is a result of the efforts of a multi-agency Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF) investigation. ITAVU is the Tamaulipas Institute for Housing and Urban Development. Zarate Juarez was appointed to the position of director of ITAVU by former Tamaulipas Governor Tomas Yarrington Ruvalcaba. ITAVU is the department in Tamaulipas responsible for supporting lower income residents with housing programs and financing programs. There was a previously filed Verified Civil Complaint for Forfeiture in Rem regarding a 2005 Pilatus Aircraft, bearing tail number N679PE, also listed in the forfeiture provision of the indictment against Zarate. The Pilatus aircraft is the same aircraft that is also listed in the notice of forfeiture in the pending criminal indictment charging former Tamaulipas Governor Tomas Yarrington Ruvalcaba. In the civil case, it is alleged that Yarrington is the true owner and that he purchased the aircraft through several straw purchasers in a complex money laundering scheme. The laundered proceeds is alleged to have included drug cartel money. “HSI special agents often investigate complex financial schemes in order to disrupt and dismantle the ongoing operations of suspected transnational criminal organizations,” said Special Agent in Charge Janice Ayala of Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) San Antonio. “These investigations can deprive the organizations from enjoying the fruits of these illicit proceeds and prevent them from furthering the ongoing criminal enterprise. HSI will continue to aggressively investigate fraudulent financial schemes that jeopardize the integrity of our financial system.” If convicted of the money laundering conspiracy, Zarate faces up to 20 years in federal prison and a possible $500,000 fine (or twice the value of the monetary instrument or funds involved in the transactions or both). Upon conviction of the bank frdu charge, Zarate also faces up to 30 years in Federal prison and a potential $1 million fine. Zarate is not in the custody of the United States and a warrant remains outstanding for his arrest. Anyone with information about his whereabouts is asked to contact Homeland Security Investigations at 956-542-5811. Persons calling from Mexico should call 001-800-010-5237. The OCDETF investigation leading to the indictment was conducted in McAllen, San Antonio, Brownsville, Houston, Laredo and Corpus Christi by HSI, FBI, Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation and Drug Enforcement Administration. This case is being prosecuted in the Southern District of Texas by Assistant U.S. Attorney Julie K. Hampton. An indictment is a formal accusation of criminal conduct, not evidence. A defendant is presumed innocent unless convicted through due process of law.
corruption Today, FBI Special Agent in Charge Eric S. Birnbaum, announced the arrest of and unsealing of a two-count federal complaint against a U.S. Customs and Border Protection officer as a result of an investigation into the placement of a hidden video camera inside of the women’s restroom at a U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Customs and Border Protection (CBP) building in San Diego, California. Armando Gonzalez, age 46, was arrested on Friday, March 6, 2015, at approximately 3:30 p.m. in El Cajon, California. Gonzalez was arrested without incident by FBI agents, along with agents and/or officers from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Office of Inspector General (OIG), U.S. Customs Border Protection-Internal Affairs, and San Diego Police Department. Following his arrest, Gonzalez was transported to the San Diego FBI Field Office for fingerprinting and photographing. Gonzalez was arrested pursuant to a federal arrest warrant based upon a federal complaint charging Gonzalez with violation of Title 18, U.S.C., Section 1801(a), Video Voyeurism and Title 18, U.S.C., Section 1001 (a)(2), False Statements. According to the complaint filed in this matter, on January 9, 2015, a hidden video camera was discovered in a women’s restroom located inside of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Customs and Border Protection (CBP) United States Border Patrol (USBP), Critical Incident Investigative Team (CIIT). The CIIT is housed in a building further identified as Building CA0475, located within the CBP complex otherwise known as the Chula Vista Border Patrol Station at 3752 Beyer Boulevard in Chula Vista, California. According to the complaint, a review of the micro SD card from the camera contained images and video believed to from the interior of the women’s restroom. One of the video files captured images of a white male wearing a ball cap and Charger’s sweatshirt, using a screwdriver to install the camera into a drain in the women’s restroom. The white male is believed to be Gonzalez placing the camera inside of the restroom. The SD card also contained video files depicting activity within the women’s restroom. On February 6, 2015, an SD card recovered from Gonzalez’s office was examined by an FBI agent pursuant to a federal search warrant. The SD card contained, among other files, 169 video files with a creation or modified dates for the period July 20, 2013 through December 23, 2014. The video files contained images of activity allegedly recorded inside of the CIIT women’s restroom. On March 6, 2015, Gonzales was booked into the Metropolitan Correctional Center (MCC), San Diego, California pending his initial appearance in federal court before a U.S. Magistrate Judge on Monday, March 9, 2015. On Monday, March 09, 2015, Gonzales appeared before U.S. Magistrate Judge, Jill Burkhardt. During this hearing several matters were addressed including Gonzales being made aware of the filing of federal charges via a complaint against him. U.S. Magistrate Judge, Jill Burkhardt, set bond at $50,000 (secured by the signatures of two financially responsible adults) and issued an order forbidding Gonzalez from having contact with any of the victims in this case. A preliminary hearing was scheduled for March 19, 2015 at 9:30 a.m., before U.S. Magistrate Judge, Jill Burkhardt. This case is being investigated by the FBI, U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Office of Inspector General (OIG), U.S. Customs Border Protection-Internal Affairs, and San Diego Police Department. This matter is being prosecuted by the U.S. Attorney’s Office, Southern District of California, San Diego, California. An arrest and filing of a complaint are not evidence that the defendant committed the crime(s) charged. The defendant is presumed innocent until the government meets its burden in court of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption U.S. Attorney Kenneth A. Polite and Michael Anderson, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigations (“FBI”), New Orleans Field Division, announced that IRA THOMAS, 56, of New Orleans, and a member of the Orleans Parish School Board (“OPSB”), was charged today in a one-count bill of information charging him with conspiracy to commit bribery and honest services wire fraud. According to the Bill of Information, beginning in September 2013 and continuing until January 2015,THOMAS and several others participated in a conspiracy to commit bribery and honest services wire fraud. The Bill of Information alleges that THOMAS, in his role as an Orleans Parish School Board Member, engaged in a scheme to defraud Orleans Parish and its citizens of his honest services through bribery and a kickback scheme. It is further alleged that THOMAS used his public office and official capacity to provide favorable treatment, including attempting to facilitate the awarding of a contract, that was designed to benefit the business and financial interest of an individual who provided him with a bribe and kickback in the form of cash payment disguised as a campaign contribution. “Today’s announcement should send a message to those public officials who are engaging in corruption, or are even contemplating doing so,” stated U.S. Attorney Polite. “Everyone in this community—law enforcement, average residents, your co-workers, even those who you believe are trusted co-conspirators—will eventually work together to turn a spotlight on your criminality.” “Sadly, this public corruption conspiracy strikes at the heart of two of the most important issues currently facing New Orleanians, education, and indirectly, public safety,” stated FBI Special Agent in Charge Michael Anderson. “While any public corruption is intolerable, the FBI will remain particularly vigilant when these types of social issues are impacted.” According to the Bill of Information, in September 2013 a cooperating witness (“CW”) was approached by an OPSB employee, who offered the CW a janitorial services contract that would soon be up for bid by the OPSB in exchange for a monetary payoff. During the fall of 2013, the CW, THOMAS, the OPSB employee, and at times another private citizen, met to discuss this contract. These conversations were recorded by the CW with the assistance of the FBI. Ultimately, it was decided that the CW would pay $5,000 to THOMAS in the form of a “campaign contribution” in exchange for THOMAS’ and the OPSB employee’s assistance regarding the janitorial services contract. In December 2013, the CW delivered $5,000 in cash to the private citizen acting as a conduit for THOMAS, which was video recorded. This money was then delivered to THOMAS. During the fall of 2014, THOMAS and the OPSB employee discussed over recorded telephone conversations how to alter the bid process so that the CW would be given an improper advantage in bidding for the janitorial services contract, which was valued over $5,000. If convicted of conspiring with others to commit bribery and honest services wire fraud, THOMAS faces statutory penalties of up to five years in prison, a $250,000 fine and three years of supervised release. The Bill of Information also contains Notice of Forfeiture which puts the defendant on notice that the Government intends on forfeiting any and all property and profits concerned with and/or derived from any illegal activity referenced in the Bill of Information. U.S. Attorney Polite reiterated that today’s Bill of Information describes allegations and that the guilt of the defendant must be proven beyond a reasonable doubt. U.S. Attorney Polite praised the work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in investigating this matter. Assistant U.S. Attorney Sean Toomey is in charge of the prosecution.
corruption SAN FRANCISCO—Two San Francisco International Airport security screeners were among the three individuals arrested and arraigned today on charges of bribery and drug smuggling, announced United States Attorney Melinda Haag, Federal Bureau of Investigation Special Agent in Charge David Johnson, Drug Enforcement Administration Acting Special Agent in Charge Bruce Balzano, and Transportation Security Administration Office of Inspection Special Agent in Charge Regan Fong. A federal complaint charging the three individuals with drug smuggling and bribery-related charges was unsealed this morning. According to the complaint, Claudio Rene Sunux, 30, of San Francisco, and Amanda Lopez, 27, of South San Francisco, were security screeners contracted with the Transportation Security Administration. In exchange for an offer of money from Anibal Giovanni Ramirez, 28, of San Francisco, Sunux and Lopez agreed to allow pounds of methamphetamine to be smuggled in carry-on luggage through the security checkpoint at SFO. Ramirez, Sunux, and Lopez coordinated the operation, in part, through messages on Facebook. All three defendants, Sunux, Lopez, and Ramirez, are charged with conspiracy to distribute and possess with intent to distribute methamphetamine, in violation of 21 U.S.C. §§ 846 and 841. In this case, violation of the statute carries a mandatory minimum of ten years and can result in a life sentence and a maximum fine of $10 million. The security screeners, Sunux and Lopez, also are charged with agreement to receive a bribe by a public official, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 201(b)(2), while Ramirez is charged with offering to bribe a public official, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 201(b)(1). For these offenses, the maximum term of imprisonment is 15 years, and the maximum fine is $250,000 or three times the monetary equivalent of the thing of value. Conviction for the bribery-related charges also may result in disqualification from holding any office of honor, trust, or profit in the United States. A complaint contains only allegations. Sunux, Lopez, and Ramirez, as with all defendants, must be presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. In addition, any sentence following conviction would be imposed by the court only after consideration of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and the federal statute governing the imposition of a sentence, 18 U.S.C. § 3553. Sunux and Lopez are scheduled to appear Monday, March 9, 2015 before U.S. Magistrate Judge Maria-Elena James for identification of counsel. Ramirez is scheduled to appear before Magistrate Judge James on Wednesday March 11, 2015 for a detention hearing. All three defendants currently are in federal custody. Adam Wright and Jeffrey Shih are the Assistant U.S. Attorneys prosecuting the case, with the assistance of Rawaty Yim and Yanira Osorio. The investigation of Sunux, Lopez, and Ramirez has involved officers and agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Transportation Security Administration Office of Inspection, and the Oakland Police Department. This case is the product of an extensive investigation by the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force, a focused multi-agency, multi-jurisdictional task force investigating and prosecuting significant drug trafficking organizations throughout the United States by leveraging the combined expertise of federal, state and local law enforcement agencies.
corruption WASHINGTON—The Department of Justice has reached a settlement of its civil forfeiture cases against $1.2 million in assets in the United States traceable to corruption proceeds accumulated by Chun Doo Hwan, the former president of the Republic of Korea. The department also assisted the government of the Republic of Korea in recovering an additional $27.5 million in satisfaction of an outstanding criminal restitution order against former President Chun. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, Director Sarah R. Saldaña of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)­­ and Assistant Director in Charge David Bowdich of the FBI’s Los Angeles Field Office made the announcement after the settlement was signed and papers requesting that the court execute the agreement were filed with the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. “Chun Doo Hwan’s campaign of corruption and bribery while serving as Korea’s president betrayed the trust of the Korean people, deprived Korea’s government of precious resources and undermined the rule of law,” said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. “Fighting corruption is a global imperative that demands a coordinated global response. The close cooperation between the United States and Korea in successfully recovering corruption proceeds stands as a testament to our resolve to battle the scourge of corruption through international collaboration.” “Former Korean President Chun violated the trust of the people of Korea,” said Director Saldaña. “The results in this case reflect the outstanding international cooperation that exists between U.S. law enforcement and the government of Korea.” “The U.S. will not idly standby and serve as a money laundering haven for foreign officials to hide corrupt activities,” said Assistant Director in Charge David Bowdich. “The FBI will continue to collaborate with our foreign partners by leveraging its resources in order to identify those engaged in foreign corruption and to recover their ill-gotten gains.” According to court documents, President Chun was convicted in Korea in 1997 of receiving more than $200 million in bribes from Korean businesses and companies. President Chun and his relatives laundered some of these corruption proceeds through a web of nominees, trusts and shell companies in both Korea and the United States. Under the terms of the U.S. settlement, $1,226,951 in assets will be forfeited to the United States. During the joint U.S.-Korean investigation, approximately $27.5 million in additional funds were paid by an associate of former President Chun to the Korean government to partially settle the judgment entered against former President Chun upon his criminal conviction. Including the settlement announced today, the U.S. and Korean authorities have recovered more than $28.7 million in connection with Korea’s investigation and prosecution of former President Chun. The investigation was conducted jointly by the FBI’s West Covina Resident Agency of the Los Angeles Division, ICE’s Homeland Security Investigations’ (HSI) Philadelphia Office, HSI’s Attaché in Seoul, South Korea and the FBI Kleptocracy Program of the International Corruption Unit within the Criminal Investigation Division. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Woo S. Lee and Della Sentilles of the Criminal Division’s Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section, Assistant U.S. Attorneys Katharine Schonbachler and Steven R. Welk of the Central District of California, and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Joseph Minni and Alvin Stout of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The Criminal Division’s Office of International Affairs provided substantial support. The department is grateful for the significant assistance provided by the Seoul Central District Public Prosecutor’s Office, Korea’s Supreme Prosecutor’s Office—Anti-Corruption Supervisory Division and the Ministry of Justice’s International Criminal Affairs Division in investigating and forfeiting these corruption proceeds. This case was brought under the Kleptocracy Asset Recovery Initiative by a team of dedicated prosecutors in the Criminal Division’s Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section, working in partnership with federal law enforcement agencies to forfeit the proceeds of foreign official corruption and, where appropriate, return those proceeds to benefit the people harmed by these acts of corruption and abuse of office. Individuals with information about possible proceeds of foreign corruption located in or laundered through the United States should contact federal law enforcement or send an e-mail to kleptocracy@usdoj.gov.
corruption Preet Bharara, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, announced that former New York City Council Member DANIEL HALLORAN was sentenced today in White Plains federal court to 10 years in prison in connection with his role in arranging the bribery of New York City Republican leaders to allow New York State Senator Malcolm Smith, a Democrat, to run as a Republican candidate for New York City Mayor in 2013, and accepting a $15,000 cash bribe in exchange for designating up to $80,000 in New York City funds to a non-profit entity that would allow the money to be embezzled through a no-show job. HALLORAN was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Kenneth M. Karas, who presided over the two-month trial that resulted in Halloran’s conviction in August 2014. U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said: “When elected officials, like Daniel Halloran, not only corrupt themselves but, unseen, corrupt the body politic from within they undermine the public’s confidence in a representative form of government. I would like to thank our law enforcement partners at the FBI and the Rockland County District Attorney’s Office for working with us to ensure that the defendant was pursued, prosecuted, and faced justice.” According to the Complaint and the Indictment filed in federal court, the evidence admitted at trial, and statements made at various proceedings in this case, including today’s sentencing: HALLORAN was elected to the New York City Council in 2009, representing a district in Queens, New York. While a member of the city council, HALLORAN participated in two overlapping criminal schemes that involved the payment of bribes to obtain official action. First, HALLORAN arranged for $110,000 in cash bribes to be paid to leaders of the Republican Party so that they would allow Smith to run for mayor on the Republican Party’s ballot line. Second, HALLORAN accepted an up-front kickback of $15,000 for designating up to $80,000 of New York City Council discretionary funding to a company he believed was controlled by those who paid him the bribes. The Bribery of Republican Party Leaders From November 2012 until his arrest in April 2013, HALLORAN agreed with Smith, an undercover FBI agent posing as a wealthy real estate developer (the “UC”), and a cooperating witness (“CW”) to bribe New York City Republican Party leaders in exchange for their authorization of Smith to appear as a Republican candidate for New York City Mayor in 2013, even though Smith is a registered Democrat. In furtherance of the scheme, HALLORAN arranged for the UC and the CW to meet Vincent Tabone, the Vice Chairman of the Queens County Republican Party, Joseph Savino, the Chairman of the Bronx County Republican Party, and other party leaders. HALLORAN also negotiated the size of bribes that the party leaders required in order to authorize Smith to run on the Republican ballot line. During a meeting with the UC, Tabone accepted a $25,000 cash bribe and agreed to accept another $25,000 after his committee authorized Smith to compete in the Republican primary. Savino similarly accepted a $15,000 cash bribe and agreed to accept another $15,000 after he voted to authorize Smith to compete for the Republican ballot line. In return for his efforts, HALLORAN accepted $15,500 as a down payment on a “broker’s” fee of at least $75,000 and expected to be appointed First Deputy Mayor if Smith was elected mayor. Bribery for City Council Discretionary Funding From August 2012 until his arrest in April 2013, HALLORAN accepted an up-front kickback of $15,000 cash from the UC and the CW in exchange for agreeing to steer up to $80,000 in New York City Council discretionary funding to a consulting company he believed was controlled by the UC and the CW (the “Company”). At a meeting on September 7, 2012, at which HALLORAN and the UC discussed HALLORAN’s need to raise money for his congressional campaign, HALLORAN agreed to hire someone of the CW’s choosing for a congressional staff or some equivalent position, and to help him raise money for his campaign. During the discussion, HALLORAN said: “That’s politics, that’s politics, it’s all about how much. Not whether or will, it’s about how much, and that’s our politicians in New York, they’re all like that…And they get like that because of the drive that the money does for everything else. You can’t do anything without the f***ing money.” During the meeting, the CW paid HALLORAN $7,500. And near the end of the meeting, HALLORAN remarked: “Money is what greases the wheels – good bad, or indifferent.” In furtherance of this scheme, HALLORAN wrote two letters on New York City Council letterhead about this funding, one to civic organizations and the other to the Company. Despite suggesting in these letters that work would be done by the Company to support the allotment of taxpayer money, HALLORAN agreed with the UC and the CW that the Company would provide no services. * * * In addition to the prison term, HALLORAN, 42, of Queens, New York, was also sentenced to two years of supervised release, and ordered to forfeit $45,300. HALLORAN’s co-conspirators, Smith and Tabone, were convicted for their roles in the bribery conspiracy in January 2015 and are currently scheduled to be sentenced by Judge Karas on July 1, 2015. In the sentencing of HALLORAN, Judge Karas remarked, “This was a very serious crime. When a public official gets into cars and takes wads of cash or promises public money in return for cash to the politician, it is so troubling. It causes us all to be cynical about our leaders. It causes us to doubt that our leaders are looking after us. And it’s a very serious matter.” Mr. Bharara praised the outstanding investigative work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Rockland County District Attorney’s Office. This case is being handled by the Office’s White Plains Division and Public Corruption Unit. Assistant United States Attorneys Douglas B. Bloom and Justin Anderson are in charge of the prosecution. Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption PROVIDENCE, RI—Former Rhode Island House Speaker Gordon D. Fox, 53, of East Providence, has waived federal indictment and is expected to plead guilty in federal court to a three-count Information charging him with wire fraud, bribery and filing a false tax return. The charges stem from former Speaker Fox’s theft of $108,000 donated by campaign supporters to pay for personal expenses; his acceptance of a $52,000 bribe to advocate and move for issuance of a liquor license for an East Side restaurant while serving as Vice-Chairman of the City of Providence Board of Licenses in 2008; and his failure to account for these illegal sources of income on his tax returns. An 18-month federal grand jury investigation led by prosecutors from the United States Attorney’s Office and the Rhode Island Attorney General’s Office, the FBI, IRS and Rhode Island State Police, included the execution of court authorized search warrants at the former speaker’s home and State House office in March of 2014; the issuance of more than 200 subpoenas; the examination of more than 36,000 bank, government, personal and campaign records belonging to former Speaker Fox; and forensic examinations of several computers and other electronic devices. United States Attorney Peter F. Neronha, Rhode Island Attorney General Peter F. Kilmartin, FBI Special Agent in Charge Vincent B. Lisi, IRS Criminal Investigation Special Agent in Charge William P. Offord, and Rhode Island State Police Superintendent Colonel Steven G. O’Donnell today announced the conclusion of the investigation and the filing of the Information, together with a Plea Agreement which, if accepted by the District Court, will result in Former Speaker Fox being sentenced to three years in federal prison. United States Attorney Peter F. Neronha commented, “When the search warrants in this case were executed nearly a year ago, there was talk about the State House being ‘the People’s House.’ I agree completely. The People’s House should be occupied by elected officials who hold office to serve the people, not themselves. As federal and state prosecutors, and federal and state law enforcement officials, we represent the people of the United States and the people of Rhode Island. And we will go anywhere—anywhere—we can lawfully go to obtain the evidence we need to protect their interests.” “Last year, as the federal case began against Speaker Fox, I pledged to U.S. Attorney Neronha, the support and resources of the Department of Attorney General should they become necessary. During the investigation, when the evidence of the bribery was discovered, the State possessed the prosecutorial tools necessary to move forward with this charge. It was that need and the state’s ability to move forward which helped secure a just resolution today,” said Attorney General Peter F. Kilmartin. “The close working relationship between the Department of Attorney General and the United States Attorney’s Office allows both offices to leverage state and federal resources to bring those who violate our laws—and the public’s trust—to justice. Hopefully, the state and its citizens can now move on from this case. I wish to commend and thank Assistant Attorney General Patrick Youngs for his effort in this case.” Vincent B. Lisi, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI’s Boston Division, added, “The citizens of Rhode Island put a lot of trust in their elected officials and once again another elected official has betrayed that trust by using his position to line his own pockets. Mr. Fox will now pay the price for his decision to put his personal greed before his duty to those he was supposed to serve.” “Gordon Fox accepted a bribe, diverted campaign and PAC funds for his personal use, and omitted this illegal income from his federal income tax returns,” stated William Offord, Special Agent in Charge of IRS Criminal Investigation. “No public official gets a free pass to ignore the tax laws, and IRS Criminal Investigation works to ensure that everyone pays their fair share.” Colonel Steven G. O’Donnell, Superintendent of the Rhode Island State Police added, “I commend the United States Attorney and the Attorney General and their prosecutors, agents from the FBI, IRS, and our State Police for their unwavering commitment to justice. Corruption impacts every aspect of our free society, and we stand committed to ferret out and to prosecute those who prey on the public’s trust.” According to court documents filed in this matter, from February 2008 until March of 2014, just before the execution of federal search warrants at his State House office and home, former Speaker Fox repeatedly used money received from campaign donors to pay for personal expenses. After transferring the money from his campaign accounts to his personal accounts, former Speaker Fox used the money—$108,000 in all—to pay the mortgage on his home, the loan payments on his car, and the balance on his personal American Express card, which he used to make purchases at various retail outlets. To conceal this fraudulent conduct, former Speaker Fox falsified his mandatory Rhode Island Board of Elections filings. According to documents filed in court, at the conclusion of 2013, his filing claimed a balance in the Friends of Fox campaign account of $212,060.66, when in fact the balance in the account was $52,403.02. According to court documents, in the course of the investigation into former Speaker Fox’s fraudulent diversion of campaign funds for his personal use, prosecutors and investigators discovered that, in 2008, former Speaker Fox accepted a $52,000 bribe while serving as an appointed member and Vice-Chairman of the City Providence Board of Licenses. As alleged in court documents, in 2008, the Shark Sushi Bar and Grill, a new restaurant on Thayer Street in Providence, applied for a liquor license from the Providence Board of Licenses. There was considerable neighborhood opposition to the application. As alleged, in the face of that opposition, Shark Bar partners met with then Vice-Chairman Fox. As a result of this meeting, Vice-Chairman Fox agreed to accept a bribe from the partners in exchange for supporting the Shark Bar application before the Board. According to court documents, at a Board of Licenses hearing on August 13, 2008, two Shark Bar partners testified in favor of the application, and members of the public voiced their opposition. The Board took the application under advisement. At a subsequent Board hearing on August 29, 2008, Vice-Chairman Fox, pursuant to his agreement with the Shark Bar partners, spoke in detail regarding why the license should be awarded, and moved the Board to approve the Shark Bar’s application. The Board voted to approve the Shark Bar’s application. The investigation revealed that within a week following the Board’s vote to approve the license application, two Shark Bar partners delivered $32,000 in cash and checks to then Vice-Chairman Fox. A third, silent Shark Bar partner delivered an additional $17,500 to Fox through one of the other Shark Bar partners. In all, Vice-Chairman Fox accepted a $52,000 bribe in exchange for his official action as Vice-Chairman of the Providence Board of Licenses on behalf of the Shark Bar. Additionally, according to court documents, the investigation determined that for the tax years 2008 through 2012, former Speaker Fox filed false tax returns, in that he knowingly omitted from his statement of total income for each of those calendar years the personal income he received as a result of his receipt of the bribe in 2008 and his fraudulent transfers from his campaign accounts to his personal accounts. The case is being jointly prosecuted in federal court by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Dulce Donovan and Adi Goldstein, and Rhode Island Assistant Attorney General J. Patrick Youngs. Gordon Fox is scheduled to appear before U.S. District Court Judge Mary M. Lisi at 12:00 p.m. today for arraignment on the three-count Information and for a change-of-plea hearing. To assist the media and the public, a glossary of federal judicial terms and procedures is available at http://www.justice.gov/usao/justice101/ Contact Information United States Attorney’s Office Jim Martin (401) 709-5357 Rhode Island Attorney General’s Office Amy Kemp (401) 274-440 ext. 2234
corruption PHILADELPHIA—Sam Kuttab, 55, of Wyncote, Pennsylvania, pleaded guilty today to participating in a scheme to have a Philadelphia Municipal Court Judge use his judicial position to influence the outcome of a small claims case in the Philadelphia Municipal Court, announced United States Attorney Zane David Memeger. Kuttab, a Philadelphia area businessman, pleaded guilty to an information charging him with one count of mail fraud. According to documents filed in the case, on September 30, 2011, Kuttab notified former Philadelphia Municipal Court Judge Joseph Waters that he had a small claims case pending in the Municipal Court. Kuttab’s company, Donegal Investment Properties, was sued by another company, identified as Company B, for $2733 in unpaid fees for security services. According to the documents, Waters then used his judicial position to achieve an outcome favorable to Kuttab. Specifically, Waters called two other Municipal Court judges assigned to the case on different dates, explained his relationship with Kuttab, and asked them to rule in Kuttab’s favor. In September 2011, the Municipal Court Judge identified in the information as Judge #1 granted Kuttab’s company a continuance in the case over Company B’s objection after receiving Waters’ call. In November 2011, the Municipal Court Judge identified in the information as Judge #2 adjudicated the case in Kuttab’s favor after Waters called and said that Kuttab was “a friend of mine.” After losing the case, the plaintiff threatened to appeal the verdict, and Waters mediated a settlement in which Kuttab agreed to pay $600 to settle the case. After attorney fees, Company B received $400 rather than the $2733 for which he sued. Kuttab admitted today that he and Donegal gained a secret advantage through a series of secret ex parte communications between Waters and the other Municipal Court judges, some of which were recorded in FBI wiretaps, and that he participated in the scheme with Waters to cause favorable rulings for Donegal. In September 2014, Waters plead guilty for his role in fixing this case as well as fixing a criminal case conceived as part of an FBI sting operation. He was sentenced to 24 months in prison. U.S. District Court Judge Juan R. Sanchez scheduled a sentencing hearing for a date in July 2015 to be determined. Kuttab faces a maximum statutory sentence of 20 years in prison, a fine of up to $250,000 and up to three years of supervised release. The case was investigated by the FBI and is being prosecuted by Chief of the Public Corruption Unit Richard P. Barrett and Assistant United States Attorney Michelle L. Morgan. An Indictment, Information or Criminal Complaint is an accusation. A defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption Jerry Sutherland, 28, of Miami-Dade County, Florida, a former officer with the City of Miami Police Department, pled guilty today to two counts of extortion. Wifredo A. Ferrer, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, FBI, Miami Field Office, and Rodolfo Llanes, Chief, City of Miami Police Department (MPD), made the announcement. As admitted in Sutherland’s factual proffer in support of his plea of guilty: In early 2014, Sutherland, who, at the time, was an officer with MPD, managed a football team in his spare time. Sutherland requested that a vendor paint the football team’s helmets free of charge. Subsequently, Sutherland began to demand additional services from the vendor without payment. When the vendor balked at these demands, Sutherland, who erroneously believed that the vendor was involved in an illegal gambling operation that was located adjacent to the vendor’s business in Miami-Dade County, intimated that he would shut down the gambling operation if his demands were not met. Sutherland represented to the vendor that he would provide the vendor with information about impending surveillance and other operations by MPD in the area of the gambling operation so that the vendor could pass on that information to the owners and operators of the gambling operation. Several recordings were made of Sutherland receiving 10 bribe payments, many which he received while he was in uniform. Of these payments, 6 were made to Sutherland in exchange for his promise to provide protection for a gambling operation located in Miami-Dade County, that communicated the bets placed there to a gambling establishment in Las Vegas, Nevada; two were made to Sutherland in exchange for his promise to arrange for the dismissal of a criminal court case against an employee of the illegal gambling operation; one was made to Sutherland in exchange for his agreement to increase the visibility of police around a rival gambling location in order to discourage its customers from patronizing that rival location; and the remaining payment was for Sutherland’s promise to provide the vendor with a “case card” with a fictitious case number and officer’s name. Sutherland had been told that the fictitious case card would be used to falsely demonstrate that the gambling operation had been robbed so that the workers could keep for themselves the gambling proceeds that had been made that day. Sutherland received payments which totaled $3,400. Sutherland is scheduled to be sentenced on May 11, 2015, at 8:30 a.m., before U.S. District Judge Cecilia M. Altonaga. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI Miami Area Corruption Task Force and the City of Miami Police Department Internal Affairs Section. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Harry C. Wallace, Jr.
corruption BALTIMORE, MD—U.S. District Judge Ellen L. Hollander sentenced former correctional officer Derrick Jones, age 41, of Aberdeen, Maryland, today to 20 months in prison, followed by 18 months of supervised release, for racketeering conspiracy arising from their participation in the smuggling of drugs and contraband for members of the Black Guerilla Family (BGF) gang inside the Baltimore City Detention Center (BCDC). Judge Hollander also sentenced Linnard Wortham, a/k/a “Stu,” age 29, of Pikesville, Maryland, to 10 years in prison, followed by five years of supervised release, for the racketeering conspiracy and for possession with intent to distribute crack cocaine. Judge Hollander is expected to sentence the defendants in this case who pleaded guilty and did not testify at trial. Also today, U.S. District Judge J. Frederick Motz sentenced former correctional officer Katera Stevenson, a/k/a KK, age 24, of Baltimore, to two years in prison, followed by three years of supervised release, for her role in the racketeering conspiracy. Last week, Judge Motz sentenced former correctional officers Danielle Forrest, age 28, to 21 months in prison; and Jasmin Jones, a/k/a/ J.J., age 24, and Tanierdra Finch age 26, both of Baltimore, each to a year and a day in prison. Judge Motz also sentenced former CO Vivian Matthews to six months of home detention and outside supplier Teshawn Pinder to time served, each followed by three years of supervised release. Judge Motz is sentencing the defendants in this case who pleaded guilty and testified at trial, as well as the defendants convicted at the trial. The sentences were announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Secretary Stephen T. Moyer of the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services (DPSCS); Baltimore Police Commissioner Anthony W. Batts; and Baltimore City State’s Attorney Marilyn Mosby. “I have a strong relationship with the U.S. Attorney’s Office and look forward to working with them and the FBI to continue weeding out corruption,” said Stephen T. Moyer, Secretary of the MD Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services. This case developed as a result of the efforts of the Maryland Prison Task Force, formed in 2011 with the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services, local, state and federal law enforcement agencies, and prosecutors. The Task Force has met regularly for over three years, generating recommendations to reform prison procedures and producing leads that have been pursued by state, local and federal criminal investigators. Investigations are continuing. According to court documents, BGF has been the dominant gang at the Baltimore City Detention Center (BCDC), and in several connected facilities, including the Baltimore Central Booking Intake Center, the Women’s Detention Center, which houses many men, and in the Jail Industries Building. Tavon White and other BGF leaders and members incarcerated at BCDC were involved with and often directed the smuggling of contraband into BCDC, including cell phones, tobacco and drugs, through the services of correctional officers (CO’s), who received payments, gifts or a share of the profits. Former correctional officers Katera Stevenson, Derrick Jones, Danielle Forrest, Jasmin Jones, Tanierdra Finch, and Vivian Matthews admitted that while they worked at BCDC, they helped smuggle contraband into the jail, including tobacco, marijuana, and prescription drugs, on behalf of and for further distribution by BGF members. Derrick Jones also admitted to smuggling cell phones to BGF members. Vivian Matthews supplied prescription pills to associates of Tavon White, including Tyesha Mayo, to be smuggled into BCDC. The defendants knew that by smuggling such contraband into BCDC, they furthered the racketeering enterprise of BGF. Stevenson, Forrest, Finch and Jasmin Jones also entered into personal and sexual relationships with inmates who were BGF gang members. For example, Stevenson had a sexual relationship with BGF leader Tavon White, by whom she had a child. Stevenson had “Tavon” tattooed on her wrist. Jasmin Jones and Finch had sexual relations with BGF member Jamar Anderson, for whom they also smuggled contraband. On behalf of BGF leaders White and Jamar Anderson, Jasmin Jones also opened cells to allow gang members to mingle on the tier, and she warned of impending searches by prison officers. Danielle Forrest admitted that she had sexual relations with inmates who were BGF leaders. At the direction of one of those inmates Forrest met outside suppliers to obtain contraband, which she smuggled into BCDC. Forrest also managed payments for drugs using her Green Dot account on behalf of those inmates. Wortham admitted that he supplied contraband, including marijuana, that was smuggled into BCDC. Wortham gave the contraband to COs who then smuggled the contraband to BCDC inmates, including Derius Duncan and Jamar Anderson. Law enforcement executed a search warrant at Wortham’s residence on November 20, 2013 and seized crack cocaine, marijuana, drug paraphernalia and $4,000. Teshawn Pinder picked up contraband from sources outstide BCDC on behalf of Jamar Anderson and held the items until COs recruited by Anderson could pick them up and smuggle them into BCDC. Pinder also facilitated payment for the drugs, purchasing “Money Paks” for Anderson and transmitting the numbers to him or loading them herself onto Green Dot cards. Tavon White, a/k/a Bulldog and Tay, age 37, of Baltimore was sentenced to 12 years in prison; Jamar Anderson, age 24, of Baltimore, was sentenced to 121 months in prison; Jermaine McFadden, age 26, of Baltimore, was sentenced to 140 months in prison; and Derius Duncan, age 28, of Baltimore, was sentenced to five years in prison, for their participation in the racketeering conspiracy. Outside supplier Tyesha Mayo pleaded guilty and is awaiting sentencing. Forty of the 44 defendants charged in the racketeering conspiracy have been convicted, including 24 correctional officers. Thirty-five defendants pleaded guilty; five defendants were convicted after trial. Three defendants were acquitted and one defendant died. U.S. Attorney Rosenstein recognized the efforts of the other members of the Maryland Prison Task Force, including: the Maryland State Police, Prince George’s County Police Department, United States Marshals Office, DEA, Washington-Baltimore High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area and Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI, Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services, Baltimore Police Department, and Maryland Prison Task Force, for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant United States Attorneys Robert R. Harding and Ayn B. Ducao, who prosecuted this Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force case.
corruption EVANSVILLE—United States Attorney Josh J. Minkler, announced today federal charges against the former extra-curricular treasurer of Castle High School. Rebecca A. McKee, 60, Newburgh, Indiana, was indicted this week on three counts of theft concerning programs receiving federal funds. “The public deserves better from officials in positions of trust,” said Minkler. “Those who choose to steal from our public institutions will be held strictly accountable” Rebecca McKee served as the extra-curricular treasurer at Castle High School in Newburgh, where she handled large amounts of cash for school activities. She disbursed funds related to extra-curricular organizations operating within Castle High School and was the primary person controlling the Newburgh National Bank School Extra-Curricular Account for Castle High School. From July 2010 until August 2012, it is alleged she embezzled over $134,000 during the following fiscal years from the Warrick County School Corporation: 2010-2011—$19,863.49 2011-2012—$89,819.06 2012-2013—$24,325.40 This investigation was a collaborative effort between the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Indiana State Police, and the Indiana State Board of Accounts. “The Board of Accounts will continue to work in cooperation with its federal, state, and local partners to identify, investigate, and prosecute those who would violate the public’s trust,” said Paul Joyce State Examiner. “We all have the right to expect honest representation from our elected and/or appointed officials at all levels of government. I hope that those few public servants that decide to violate this trust will see that we are prosecuting these officials and realize that this is not acceptable and we will hold them accountable.” McKee had her initial appearance in federal court on Thursday and was released. Her trial date is set for April 27, 2015. According to Assistant United States Attorney Kyle Sawa, who is prosecuting this case for the government, McKee faces up to 10 years for each count if convicted. An indictment is only a charge and is not evidence of guilt. A defendant is presumed innocent and is entitled to a fair trial at which the government must prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption WASHINGTON—Former Police of Puerto Rico Sergeant Antonio Rodriguez Caraballo was sentenced today to serve 46 months in prison and three years’ supervised release for making a false statement under oath to the federal grand jury investigating civil rights violations stemming from the fatal beating of Jose Luis Irizarry Perez, 19, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta of the Civil Rights Division, U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodriguez-of the District of Puerto Rico and Special Agent in Charge Carlos Cases of the FBI San Juan Field Office. Rodriguez Caraballo pleaded guilty to perjury for providing false information to the grand jury concerning what he observed during the police-involved beating of Irizarry Perez. One other former Puerto Rico police officer has already been sentenced for his obstructive conduct during the federal investigation into the incident, while four other former Puerto Rico police officers, who also pleaded guilty, are awaiting sentencing for their roles in the beating and subsequent obstruction of the investigation. According to documents filed in connection with the guilty pleas, two former Puerto Rico police officers violated the constitutional rights of Irizarry Perez by striking him with their police batons while another former police officer physically restrained Irizarry Perez during an election evening celebration at the Las Colinas housing development in Yauco, Puerto Rico, on Nov. 5, 2008. U.S. District Court Judge Juan M. Perez Gimenez issued the sentence, which will be followed by three years of supervised release. During the three-year term, the defendant will be under federal supervision, and risks additional prison time should he violate any terms of his supervised release. “The department will not tolerate those who violate the sanctity of the grand jury by lying under oath,” said Acting Assistant Attorney General Gupta. “Such conduct is especially egregious in the case at hand, where a sworn law enforcement officer attempted to cover up an assault by police officers by misleading the grand jury.” “When those who are sworn to uphold the law and protect others choose to abuse their power and position, they undermine the public’s confidence in the justice system and our government institutions,” said U.S. Attorney Rodriguez-Vélez. “The U.S. Attorney’s Office and the Department of Justice are committed to promoting trust in our system of justice by vigorously prosecuting those who obstruct justice.” This case was investigated by the FBI’s San Juan Division and is being prosecuted by Senior Litigation Counsel Gerard Hogan and Trial Attorneys Shan Patel and Olimpia E. Michel of the Civil Rights Division and Assistant U.S. Attorney Jose A. Contreras of the District of Puerto Rico.
corruption JACKSON, MS—Christopher B. Epps, former Commissioner for the Mississippi Department of Corrections, and Cecil McCrory, a former Mississippi legislator, former Justice Court Judge, former Chairman of the Rankin County School Board, and a local businessman, entered guilty pleas today before U.S. District Judge Henry Wingate, announced Acting U.S. Attorney Harold Brittain, FBI Special Agent in Charge Donald Alway, IRS-Criminal Investigation Acting Special Agent in Charge Jerome R. McDuffie, U.S. Postal Inspector in Charge Robert Wemyss, and Mississippi State Auditor Stacey Pickering. Christopher Epps pled guilty to one count of money laundering conspiracy and one count of filing a false tax return. Cecil McCrory pled guilty to one count of money laundering conspiracy. Epps will be sentenced on June 9, 2015 at 9:30 a.m. and McCrory will be sentenced on June 10, 2015 at 9:30 a.m. The maximum penalty for money laundering conspiracy is 20 years in prison and a $500,000 fine or twice the value of the property involved in the transaction. The maximum penalty for filing a false tax return is three years in prison and a $250,000 fine. This case was investigated by the FBI, IRS-Criminal Investigation, U.S. Postal Inspection Service, Mississippi State Auditor’s Office, and the Leake County Sheriff’s Office. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Mike Hurst, Darren LaMarca, and Scott Gilbert, as well as financial analyst Kim Mitchell, are prosecuting the case.
corruption LAS VEGAS, NV—Former Clark County Family Court Judge Steven E. Jones was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge Jennifer A. Dorsey to 26 months in prison, three years of supervised release, and ordered to pay approximately $2.9 million in restitution for participating in an investment fraud that bilked over 50 investor victims out of millions in cash for almost a decade, announced U.S. Attorney Daniel G. Bogden for the District of Nevada and Laura Bucheit, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI for Nevada. Jones, 57, of Henderson, Nev., who served for almost 20 years as a family court judge in Clark County, pleaded guilty in September to one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud. He was permitted to self-surrender to federal prison by May 25, 2015. Jones’ sentence was enhanced for violating his position of trust, and because the loss amount was over $200,000 and there were more than 10 victims. Jones resigned his position as judge and surrendered his Nevada law license in September as one of the conditions of his plea agreement. “Former Judge Steven Jones played an integral part in this investment fraud scheme and was the most prominent and indispensable member,” said U.S. Attorney Bogden. “This crime was not a “one-off” for Jones, but a calculated and deliberate decision that he replicated for years. He knew right from wrong, but engaged in the conduct anyway because he could.” “This sentencing reaffirms to the public that the FBI will continue to make certain that no one is above the law, and when public corruption is identified, it will be aggressively investigated and prosecuted,” said Special Agent in Charge Bucheit. All of the co-conspirators charged in the fraud scheme have also pleaded guilty. Thomas A. Cecrle, Jr., 57, of Henderson, Nev., and Constance C. Fenton, 70, of Gig Harbor, Wash., are scheduled to be sentenced on March 2. Terry J. Wolfe, 59, of Henderson, was sentenced on Feb. 19, to time served, three years of supervised release, and ordered to pay approximately $2.9 million in restitution. Mark L. Hansen, 56, of Corvallis, Ore., was sentenced on Jan. 27, 2015, to four months in prison, three years of supervised release, and ordered to pay approximately $2.9 million in restitution. Ashlee M. Martin, 31, of Las Vegas, Nev., entered into a 12-month pretrial diversion agreement with the government. According to the plea memoranda, defendants lured victims into a fraud scheme by falsely telling them that Cecrle worked as a contractor for the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, purchasing and selling water rights worth millions of dollars as part of a secret government program. The co-conspirators then solicited money by falsely claiming that Cecrle needed short-term cash loans to complete his phantom water deals, loans he promised to repay in short order along with a very large return. Cecrle and his co-conspirators concocted a similar story involving a land deal on the Las Vegas Strip where Cecrle needed short-term loans to supposedly close a deal with Sir Richard Branson. In truth, however, Cecrle held no position with the federal government and there were no land or water rights deals. Using his office as an elected state court judge, defendant Jones knowingly vouched for Cecrle and the legitimacy of the deals to potential investors when he knew the deals were, in fact, scams. According to the plea memorandum, Jones continued to further the conspiracy by receiving money from a victim in the parking lot of the Family Division Courthouse, meeting with at least one potential investor in his chambers and elsewhere in the courthouse to discuss the investment, obtaining an “Own Recognizance” bond to release Cecrle from custody after he was arrested for bad checks he had passed to a victim, and opening and maintaining a joint checking account with Cecrle, through which flowed over $260,000 in illegal proceeds. During the entire conspiracy, which lasted from about September 2002 to October 2012, the defendants defrauded at least 22 victims of more than $2.6 million, money they quickly converted to their own use. The case was investigated by the FBI and prosecuted by First Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven W. Myhre and Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel R. Schiess of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Nevada. This prosecution is part of efforts underway by President Barack Obama’s Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force. President Obama established the interagency Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force to wage an aggressive, coordinated and proactive effort to investigate and prosecute financial crimes. The task force includes representatives from a broad range of federal agencies, regulatory authorities, inspectors general and state and local law enforcement who, working together, bring to bear a powerful array of criminal and civil enforcement resources. The task force is working to improve efforts across the federal executive branch, and with state and local partners, to investigate and prosecute significant financial crimes, ensure just and effective punishment for those who perpetrate financial crimes, combat discrimination in the lending and financial markets and recover proceeds for victims of financial crimes. For more information about the task force visit: www.stopfraud.com.
corruption WASHINGTON—The former mayor of the municipality of Río Grande, Puerto Rico, was sentenced today to 64 months in prison and ordered to forfeit $39,000 for soliciting and receiving cash bribes from a contractor who sought construction inspection contracts with the municipality. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodríguez-Vélez of the District of Puerto Rico and Special Agent in Charge Carlos Cases of the FBI’s San Juan Division made the announcement. U.S. District Judge Carmen C. Cerezo of the District of Puerto Rico imposed the sentence. Eduard Rivera-Correa, 61, pleaded guilty on Oct. 24, 2014, to one count of bribery. According to the plea agreement and statement of facts, while mayor of Río Grande in early 2010, Rivera-Correa requested that a contractor make regular kickback payments in exchange for the award of three construction inspection contracts worth a total of $329,000. After the contracts were awarded and while payments were being disbursed by the municipality, the contractor delivered envelopes containing approximately $39,000 in cash to Rivera-Correa’s office and placed them in his drawer. In his plea agreement, Rivera-Correa also admitted to obstructing justice by threatening the contractor who paid the bribes. On or about April 16, 2012, in a recorded conversation, Rivera-Correa threatened the contractor in an effort to intimidate him and dissuade him from cooperating with law enforcement. This case was investigated by the FBI and prosecuted by Trial Attorney Charles R. Walsh of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Criminal Chief Jose Ruíz of the District of Puerto Rico. The Puerto Rico Office of Government Ethics provided assistance in the investigation.
corruption In Del Rio today, former Maverick County Precinct 4 Commissioner Cesar Flores was sentenced to ten years in federal prison for his role in a bribery, kickback and bid-rigging scheme that caused Maverick County to lose more than $1.3 million announced Acting United States Attorney Richard L. Durbin, Jr., and FBI Special Agent in Charge Christopher Combs, San Antonio Division. In addition to the prison term, United States District Judge Alia Moses ordered that Flores be placed on supervised release for a period of three years and complete 1,500 hours of community service after completing his prison term. Judge Moses also ordered Flores to pay a maximum $546,170.81 restitution to Maverick County. On September 5, 2013, Flores pleaded guilty to one count of receiving a bribe. By pleading guilty, Flores admitted that he agreed to be influenced and rewarded for using his position to ensure that certain Eagle Pass contractors, including Javier Gonzales, Hipolito Amaya and Roberto Lopez Macias, were awarded construction contracts in Maverick County Precinct 4 in 2010 and in 2011. “The corruption in the cases sentenced this week works like a cancer on the body politic, eating away public confidence in local government. We will make every effort to counter its effects and hold accountable those who abuse the public trust for their personal gain,” stated Acting United States Attorney Richard L. Durbin, Jr. “These defendants created a culture of corruption that spread throughout Maverick County, enabling theft and waste to thrive while taxpayers and honest businesses suffered,” stated FBI SAC Christopher Combs, San Antonio Division. Authorities are still looking for two defendants in this case: San Antonio businessman German Garcia Cano and 47–year-old Eagle Pass businessman Alejandro Wheeler. Cano, 55-year-old owner of GGC Enterprises (GGC), failed to appear for sentencing yesterday. Wheeler, owner and operator of TVAW Ch. 20, a now defunct media outlet based in Eagle Pass, has been a fugitive since being indicted by a federal grand jury in November 2013. In October 2014, Cano pleaded guilty to one count of paying a bribe. According to court records, Maverick County paid GGC hundreds of thousands of dollars between 2009 and 2012 for leasing heavy equipment used in construction projects throughout the County. Cano admitted to paying bribes to two Maverick County employees to ensure that GGC secured those leasing contracts with Maverick County and to receive his checks from the County. Wheeler is charged with one count of aiding and abetting paying a bribe to an agent of an organization receiving federal funds and one count of aiding and abetting theft concerning programs receiving federal funds. According to authorities, in 2010 and 2011, Wheeler allegedly assisted in paying bribes in the form of cash payments as well as discounted campaign advertising and media time to Maverick County commissioners on behalf of contractors looking to secure County construction contracts. Arrest warrants have been issued for both Cano and Wheeler. Individuals with information as to their whereabouts or first-hand information about corruption, fraud, or bribery related to Maverick County are urged to contact the FBI at (210) 225-6741. To date, seventeen (17) individuals have been convicted and sentenced in connection with this investigation. This case is part of an ongoing investigation being conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation with assistance from Customs and Border Protection Office of Internal Affairs, Texas Department of Public Safety Criminal Investigative Division, Texas Rangers, Drug Enforcement Administration, and the Eagle Pass ISD Police Department. Assistant United States Attorneys Bryan N. Reeves, Michael Galdo and Katie Griffin prosecuted this case on behalf of the Government.
corruption Preet Bharara, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, announced that ANTHONY SANTIAGO, a former New York City Department of Sanitation Codes Officer, was sentenced today to 18 months in prison for engaging in a scheme involving the illegal interstate transport of firearms and stolen goods and the illegal sale of a firearm interstate. SANTIAGO was sentenced today in Manhattan federal court by U.S. District Judge Deborah A. Batts. Manhattan U.S. Attorney PREET BHARARA said: “Anthony Santiago was a member of a conspiracy of corrupt law enforcement officers who not only betrayed their oaths to uphold the law, but exploited their positions as peace officers to carry out their gun-running and smuggling crimes. Participating in and actively recruiting others to a conspiracy that put illegal firearms on the street was the ultimate betrayal of honest police officers and citizens. Now Santiago will go to prison for it.” According to the Complaint, the plea agreement, the Information, and statements made in court: From September 2010 to October 2011, SANTIAGO, who had been employed by the New York City Department of Sanitation as a Codes Officer at the time he committed the offenses, was recruited to participate and did participate in the transportation of firearms interstate and what he believed were stolen goods, including slot machines, cigarettes, and other merchandise, across state lines. SANTIAGO was an active participant in the conspiracy and an integral member of the team who recruited others to join the conspiracy and helped transport across state lines firearms, including three M-16 rifles, one shotgun, and 16 handguns, the majority of which had been defaced to remove or alter the serial numbers; numerous slot machines; and thousands of cartons of cigarettes, as well as various counterfeit merchandise. SANTIAGO also participated in the conspiracy to sell his shotgun interstate. In total, the goods that SANTIAGO and his co-conspirators illegally transported carried a street value of approximately $1 million. SANTIAGO was recruited to join the conspiracies in December 2010 by the leader and organizer of the conspiracies, William Masso, who at the time of the conspiracies was an active duty Police Officer with the New York City Police Department (“NYPD”). SANTIAGO specifically discussed with Masso and their co-conspirators using their law enforcement credentials and knowledge of law enforcement in preparing for and carrying out the illegal transports. For example, in a meeting in March 2011 attended by SANTIAGO, Masso explained that the men should carry their law enforcement badges during the operation and, if stopped, say they were police officers working off-duty to deliver items that had been purchased at an auction. The group also discussed using their specialized knowledge as law enforcement officers in determining the ideal vehicle to rent to transport the goods. In addition, SANTIAGO recruited others to join the conspiracy, specifically recruiting at least one other law enforcement officer, and had frequent calls with Masso to help plan the illegal transports. In total, SANTIAGO was paid $26,000 for his role in the transport of the firearms and purportedly stolen goods. SANTIAGO was an active participant in the conspiracies, participating in and helping to organize multiple trips. The trips in which SANTIAGO participated included two trips to transport purportedly stolen slot machines from Atlantic City to New York, trips to transport hundreds of cases of purportedly stolen cigarettes from New Jersey to New York, and the final trip during which 20 firearms were transported interstate. During one such transport, SANTIAGO was the co-conspirator who suggested buying a bolt cutter to break locks on trucks parked outside a warehouse in Virginia so that the team could steal the cigarettes stored in those trucks and then transport those stolen cigarettes back to New York. SANTIAGO also conspired to sell his shotgun to an undercover law enforcement officer for $2,000, and discussed with Masso and another co-conspirator the possibility of obtaining handguns and transporting them interstate. During his guilty plea, SANTIAGO admitted that he had knowingly transported what he believed were stolen cigarettes, slot machines, and other merchandise across state lines, had willfully transported firearms across state lines, and intentionally sold a shotgun to an individual who he believed resided in another state. In addition to the prison term, Judge Batts sentenced SANTIAGO, 48, of Little Egg Harbor, New Jersey, to two years of supervised release and ordered him to pay a $300 special assessment fee. SANTIAGO also has agreed to a money judgment of $26,000 representing his share of the crime proceeds, and has relinquished his interests in guns seized from him at the time of his arrest. SANTIAGO originally was charged in a four-count Complaint along with 11 co-conspirators, many of whom were NYPD Police Officers at the time of the offense. All of the defendants have now pled guilty and been sentenced. A chart containing the status of each defendant is attached. Mr. Bharara praised the investigative work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Internal Affairs Bureau of the NYPD. This case is being handled by the Office’s Public Corruption and Complex Frauds & Cybercrime Units. Assistant United States Attorney Carrie H. Cohen is in charge of the prosecutions. Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption The United States Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania announced that a Criminal Information was filed today against Melissa Ann Arnold, 46, of York. According to United States Attorney Peter Smith, the Information alleges that during 2008 and 2009, Arnold stole more than $300,000 from tax payments made by citizens to Spring Garden Township, York County. Arnold was the Treasurer and Tax Collector for Spring Garden Township from 1995 until October 2009. Arnold was allegedly able to steal the tax payments because many of the checks were written out to her and, rather than deposit the checks into the Township’s account, she deposited them into her personal account. The government also filed a plea agreement with the defendant which must be approved by the court. York County submitted an insurance claim for the funds and received full repayment. Arnold has entered into an agreement with the insurance company to pay back the full amount and has already paid part of the amount due. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation with assistance of the Pennsylvania State Police and Spring Garden Township Police Department, and is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney James T. Clancy. Indictments and Criminal Informations are only allegations. All persons charged are presumed to be innocent unless and until found guilty in court. A sentence following a finding of guilty is imposed by the Judge after consideration of the applicable federal sentencing statutes and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines. In this case, the maximum penalty under the federal statute is 10 years’ imprisonment, a term of supervised release following imprisonment, and a $250,000 fine. Under the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, the Judge is also required to consider and weigh a number of factors, including the nature, circumstances and seriousness of the offense; the history and characteristics of the defendant; and the need to punish the defendant, protect the public and provide for the defendant’s educational, vocational and medical needs. For these reasons, the statutory maximum penalty for the offense is not an accurate indicator of the potential sentence for a specific defendant.
corruption BIRMINGHAM—A Huntsville police officer pleaded guilty today in federal court to taking part in a conspiracy to fix cocaine trafficking charges against an individual arrested by another Huntsville officer, announced U.S. Attorney Joyce White Vance, FBI Special Agent in Charge Roger C. Stanton and Huntsville Police Chief Lewis Morris. LEWIS BERNARD HALL, 45, of Meridianville, Ala., entered his guilty plea to the conspiracy before U.S. District Judge R. David Proctor. His sentencing date has not been set. “A corrupt police officer poisons the public’s trust in law enforcement. Most officers work hard to protect their communities and are willing to put their lives on the line in that service,” Vance said. “Our communities need and deserve police officers with that integrity. The conduct of individuals like this defendant is not worthy of the badge and I applaud the work of the Huntsville Police Department and the FBI in bringing Mr. Hall to justice.” “While the majority of police officers serve and protect the public with honor, there are those few, like Mr. Hall, who violate the public’s trust and bring dishonor to their badge,” Stanton said. “Simply stated, there is no place in law enforcement for individuals who lack integrity, lie, and violate the very laws they are sworn to uphold.” In his plea, Hall acknowledged that he conspired with someone identified in court documents as “Individual B” to pay a fellow police officer $5,000 if that officer would claim a July 29 vehicle search he conducted, which resulted in drug-trafficking charges against “Individual A,” was unlawful, thereby making the criminal case against Individual A go away. The Huntsville officer who conducted the vehicle search and, subsequently, assisted in the investigation of Hall is identified only as “Cooperating Officer.” According to Hall’s written plea agreement with the government, Individual A was on supervised release following a 15-year prison sentence for conspiracy to distribute a controlled substance when the Cooperating Officer pulled him over on a traffic stop July 29. The officer searched the passenger compartment of the vehicle, found about three ounces of cocaine, and took Individual A into custody on a charge of trafficking cocaine, according to the plea agreement. Hall admits in his plea that on July 31, he and Individual B discussed offering the Cooperating Officer a bribe to tell other law enforcement officers that his search of Individual A’s vehicle was unlawful. Hall offered the bribe to the Cooperating Officer on July 31, paid him $1,000 on Aug. 12, and had two follow-up conversations in November about what the officer was supposed to say when asked about the search of Individual A’s vehicle, the indictment says. The maximum penalty for the conspiracy charge is five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. The FBI investigated the case in conjunction with the Huntsville Police Department. Assistant U.S. Attorney George A. Martin Jr. is prosecuting the case.
corruption FRESNO, CA—Ramon Cano, 28, a former correctional officer at the Taft Federal Correctional Facility was sentenced by United States District Court Judge Anthony W. Ishii yesterday to 30 months in prison for conspiracy to provide and possess contraband in prison in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 371 and 201(b)(1), United States Attorney Benjamin B. Wagner announced. According to court documents, Cano admitted that between November 2013 and February 27, 2014, he conspired with Gerardo Alvarez-Montanez, 32, an inmate at the Taft Federal Correctional Facility to smuggle cell phones, cash, alcohol and controlled substances into the prison in return for the payment of cash. In sentencing Cano, Judge Ishii stated that Cano abused his position of trust and compromised the integrity and safety of the Taft Federal Correctional Institution. Judge Ishii went on to state that a correctional officer must be held to a high standard of conduct and failure to uphold this conduct can seriously endanger all those within the confines of that prison. Ramon Cano abused that trust and his acts warranted the sentence imposed. “Cano’s criminal activity of introducing contraband into the prison placed fellow correctional officers and inmates they supervised at risk,” said FBI Assistant Special Agent in Charge John Gliatta. “Those who abuse trusted roles for personal gain threaten the safety and security of the institutions neighboring communities. Such actions also threaten the reputation and safety of all corrections personnel.” On September 2, 2014, Gerardo Alvarez-Montanez was sentenced by Judge Ishii to 60 months in prison for conspiring with Cano to provide and possess contraband in prison. This case was the product of an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the U.S. Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General. Assistant United States Attorney Brian K. Delaney is prosecuting the case.
corruption A former official of the Operating Engineers Local 324, International Union of Operating Engineers, pleaded guilty today to helping to conceal extortion by another union official, U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade announced today. McQuade was joined in the announcement by James Vanderberg, Special Agent in Charge for the U.S. Department of Labor, Office of Inspector General, Office of Labor Racketeering and Fraud Investigations in Chicago, Paul M. Abbate, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI Detroit Field Office, and Ian Burg, District Director of the Department of Labor, Office of Labor Management Standards. David Hart, 42, of East China Township, Michigan, the former elected Financial Secretary and Chief of Staff of Local 324, entered the guilty plea today before U.S. District Judge Bernard A. Friedman. Hart admitted that between 2003 and 2012, he was aware of an extortion scheme perpetrated by another elected union official, for whom Hart worked. This union official forced union business agents and other employees to each pay more than $5,000 of their salaries into a fund that was to be used to pay for the re-election expenses of the union official. This union official, referred to as “Union Official A” in Hart’s plea agreement, threatened to fire union employees who refused to make weekly payments into the fund. In addition, the union official caused at least two union employees to be fired from their jobs because they complained about the weekly payments. Hart was aware of this extortion scheme by his boss at Operating Engineers Local 324, and Hart acted to conceal the crime by assisting the other union official in transferring money out of the fund and to the union official and others. Hart has agreed to pay $37,000 in restitution because of his involvement in the scheme. Operating Engineers Local 324 represents more than 18,000 individuals operating construction cranes and other heavy equipment across the State of Michigan. Based on his guilty plea, Hart is facing a maximum of three years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000. “Corruption has no place in union leadership,” McQuade said. “Working men and women should expect their elected union leaders to act in their best interests, and not to profit from their positions of leadership.” “Union officials who actively conceal union based crimes not only violate the law, but also deprive their union members of honest representation. This office will continue to work with our law enforcement partners to combat these types of crime,” stated James Vanderberg, Special Agent in Charge for the U.S. Department of Labor, Office of Inspector General, Office of Labor Racketeering and Fraud Investigations in Chicago. “Union officials who criminally abuse their positions of trust to further their own selfish interests harm the very same hard-working people they purport to serve,” stated Paul M. Abbate, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI Detroit Field Office. “FBI Detroit, in lockstep with its law enforcement partners, will continue to pursue those who corrupt our labor unions and bring these perpetrators to justice.” The case was investigated by agents of the Department of Labor, Office of Inspector General, Office of Labor Racketeering and Fraud Investigations; the Office of Labor Management Standards; the Employee Benefits Security Administration; the Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigations; and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys David A. Gardey and Dawn Ison.
corruption In Del Rio today, one former Maverick County commissioner, three former Maverick County employees and four Eagle Pass businessmen were sentenced for their roles in a bribery, kickback and bid-rigging scheme that caused Maverick County to lose more than $1.3 million announced Acting United States Attorney Richard L. Durbin, Jr., and FBI Special Agent in Charge Christopher Combs, San Antonio Division. “The corruption in the cases sentenced this week works like a cancer on the body politic, eating away public confidence in local government. We will make every effort to counter its effects and hold accountable those who abuse the public trust for their personal gain,” stated Acting United States Attorney Richard L. Durbin, Jr. “These defendants created a culture of corruption that spread throughout Maverick County, enabling theft and waste to thrive while taxpayers and honest businesses suffered,” stated FBI SAC Christopher Combs, San Antonio Division. United States District Judge Alia Moses sentenced: former Maverick County Precinct 1 Commissioner Eliaz Maldonado, age 54, to ten years in federal prison followed by three years of supervised release and to perform 1,200 hours of Community Service after completing his prison term. Maldonado was also ordered to pay a maximum $173,128.59 in restitution to the County. On May 2, 2013, Maldonado pleaded guilty to one count of receiving a bribe by an agent of an organization receiving federal funds. By pleading guilty, Maldonado admitted that in 2010 and 2011, he manipulated the bidding process to guarantee that contractors he chose would be awarded County construction contracts. Furthermore, Maldonado admitted that he instructed the private contractors to submit inflated bids to the County in order to ensure the availability of sufficient funds to perform the construction work, make a profit, and also to pay him bribes. former Maverick County Precinct 1 foreman Eduardo Rene Rodriguez, age 43, to 97 months in federal prison followed by three years of supervised release for receiving a bribe and to perform 1,200 hours of Community Service after completing his prison term. Rodriguez was also ordered to pay a maximum $26,535.72 in restitution to the County. In January 2013, the liaison between the County and private contractors hired to perform work for the County pleaded guilty to accepting a bribe. By pleading guilty, Rodriguez admitted that in 2010 and 2011, while on pretrial release for unrelated federal firearms charges, he accepted bribes totaling approximately $12,000 from contractors looking to secure County construction contracts. In 2011, Rodriguez was sentenced by Judge Moses to 21 months in federal prison and ordered to pay a $1,000 fine for conspiring to provide a false statement during the purchase of a firearm. former Maverick County Precinct 1 foreman Jaime Flores (Eduardo Rodriguez’s replacement), age 35, and 39-year-old Eagle Pass businessman Joe M. Rodriguez, to 72 months and 42 months in federal prison, respectively, followed by three years of supervised release for their roles in a scheme to steal County property. In addition to the prison terms, Flores and Rodriguez were also ordered to pay, jointly and severally, $32,070.00 in restitution to the County. Flores was also ordered to perform 500 hours of Community Service after completing his prison term. Flores and Rodriguez previously pleaded guilty to one count of theft concerning programs receiving federal funds. By pleading guilty, the defendants admitted that they stole County funds for a 15,000 pound capacity forklift that was never purchased. Court records also revealed that Jaime Flores transported numerous bribe payments on behalf of contractors to former Precinct 1 Commissioner Eliaz Maldonado. Following sentencing, Judge Moses remanded Rodriguez into the custody of the United States Marshals Service to begin serving his prison term. former Solid Waste Authority general manager and chief executive officer of the Maverick County landfill Hector Daniel Chavez, Jr., age 42, to 65 months in federal prison followed by three years of supervised release and to perform 800 hours of Community Service after completing his prison term. Chavez was also ordered to pay a maximum $201,057.71 restitution to the County. Chavez had previously pleaded guilty to one count of theft concerning programs receiving federal funds. Chavez admitted that from March 9, 2012, to December 28, 2012, he pocketed over $62,000 in forged Maverick County checks he drafted himself. Court records also revealed that Chavez created a construction company for the purpose of participating in the bribery scheme. Chavez also transported bribes from another contractor to former Precinct 2 Commissioner Rodolfo Heredia in furtherance of the scheme. Eagle Pass contractors Javier Gonzalez, age 44, and Eduardo De la Garza, age 46, to 112 months in federal prison followed by three years of supervised release and ordered to perform 800 hours of Community Service after completing their prison terms. In 2013, both Gonzalez and De la Garza pleaded guilty to one count of paying a bribe. Gonzalez, a former Maverick County juvenile probation officer, admittedly paid bribes ranging between $2,000 and $5,000 to multiple commissioners in return for over $400,000 in Maverick County contracts. He was also ordered to pay a maximum $156,337.29 in restitution to the County. De la Garza, who admittedly paid bribes ranging from $1,500 to $8,000 to multiple commissioners in return for over $800,000 in Maverick County contracts, was also ordered to pay a maximum $264,246.51 in restitution. Jose Telles, Jr., 46-year-old owner of 4x4 Construction, to ten years in federal prison followed by three years of supervised release. Telles was also ordered to pay $8,628.58 restitution to Maverick County and perform 1,200 hours of Community Service after completing his prison term. On June 4, 2013, Telles pleaded guilty to one count of paying a bribe. By pleading guilty, Telles admitted that in 2010, he paid a $5,000 bribe to Maverick County Precinct 1 commissioner Eliaz Maldonado to secure a $30,200 County contract to construct inlets and junction boxes on Juan and Laura Streets in Precinct 1. Judge Moses also continued bond conditions for Eliaz Maldonado, Javier Gonzales, Eduardo De la Garza and Jose Telles until the defendants are instructed by federal authorities as when and where to report to begin serving their prison terms. Jaime Flores, Eduardo Rodriguez and Hector Chavez were already in custody prior to today. San Antonio businessman German Garcia Cano, 55-year-old owner of GGC Enterprises (GGC), failed to appear for today’s scheduled sentencing. A bench warrant has been issued for his arrest. In October 2014, Cano pleaded guilty to one count of paying a bribe. According to the court records, Maverick County paid GGC hundreds of thousands of dollars between 2009 and 2012 for leasing heavy equipment used in construction projects in Maverick County. Cano admitted to paying bribes to two Maverick County employees to ensure that GGC secured those leasing contracts with Maverick County and to receive his checks from the county. To date, sixteen (16) individuals have been convicted and sentenced in connection with this investigation. Former Maverick County Precinct 4 commissioner Cesar Flores is scheduled to be sentenced tomorrow afternoon in federal court in Del Rio. On September 5, 2013, Flores pleaded guilty to one count of receiving a bribe. By pleading guilty, Flores admitted that he agreed to be influenced and rewarded for using his position to ensure that certain contractors were awarded construction contracts in Maverick County Precinct 4 in 2010 and in 2011. This case is part of an ongoing investigation being conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation with assistance from Customs and Border Protection Office of Internal Affairs, Texas Department of Public Safety Criminal Investigative Division, Texas Rangers, Drug Enforcement Administration, and the Eagle Pass ISD Police Department. Individuals who have first-hand information about corruption, fraud, or bribery related to Maverick County are urged to contact the FBI at (210) 225-6741. Assistant United States Attorneys Bryan N. Reeves, Michael Galdo and Katie Griffin prosecuted this case on behalf of the Government.
corruption FRESNO, CA—Derik Carson Kumagai, 41, and Saykham Somphoune a/k/a, “Oat,” 41, both residents of Fresno, pleaded guilty today to conspiring to commit bribery, United States Attorney Benjamin B. Wagner announced. According to the defendants’ plea agreements and other court documents, beginning in April of 2012, federal law enforcement was investigating a group of individuals, including defendant Somphoune and one of his associates, for suspected cultivation and distribution of marijuana. In October and November of 2013, defendant Somphuone had a series of meetings with his associate, some of which were attended by defendant Kumagai. At the time, Kumagai was a Fresno Police Department Detective. During these meetings, the associate was told that he was under federal investigation, but that in return for a bribe payment, defendant Kumagai could close the investigation and arrange to have the associate designated as a confidential informant for the Fresno Police Department. On November 6, 2013, the associate paid Kumagai approximately $20,000 cash. A few hours later, the associate signed documents for the purported purpose of becoming a confidential informant for the Fresno Police Department. The defendants were arrested in March of 2014, and the associate never actually served as a confidential informant for the Fresno Police Department. “The defendants attempted to take advantage of the trust placed in law enforcement officers for their personal gain,” said U.S. Attorney Wagner. “Law enforcement officers who accept bribes put the public and other law enforcement officers in danger.” “There is absolutely no room for such egregious misconduct in law enforcement,” said Special Agent in Charge Monica M. Miller of the Sacramento FBI. “Individuals who commit such crimes undermine public trust and betray the other fine officers who serve the public honestly and with the highest degree of integrity, while risking their lives daily to protect their communities.” DEA Acting Special Agent in Charge Bruce C. Balzano stated, “The DEA will diligently work with our law enforcement counterparts to hold those accountable who tarnish the badge by engaging in criminal behavior.” “Mr. Kumagai took an oath to uphold the law and protect citizens,” said IRS Criminal Investigation Special Agent in Charge José M. Martinez. “Instead, he used his position for personal gain and betrayed the community he swore to protect. IRS-CI will continue to investigate public corruption to ensure everyone plays by the same rules—regardless of job or position.” This case was the product of an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Drug Enforcement Administration, and the Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation. Fresno Police Chief Jerry Dyer and the Fresno Police Department cooperated with federal law enforcement throughout the investigation. Assistant United States Attorneys Grant B. Rabenn and Kevin P. Rooney are prosecuting the case. Kumagai and Somphoune are scheduled to be sentenced by Judge Anthony W. Ishii on May 4, 2015. Kumagai and Somphoune face a maximum statutory penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. The actual sentence, however, will be determined at the discretion of the court after consideration of any applicable statutory factors and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, which take into account a number of variables. This case is the product of the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF), a focused multi-agency, multi-jurisdictional task force investigating and prosecuting the most significant drug trafficking organizations throughout the United States by leveraging the combined expertise of federal, state and local law enforcement agencies.
corruption In Del Rio today, a former Maverick County commissioner, a former Maverick County employee and three contractors were sentenced for their roles in a bribery, kickback and bid-rigging scheme that caused the County to lose more than $1.3 million announced Acting United States Attorney Richard L. Durbin, Jr., and FBI Special Agent in Charge Christopher Combs, San Antonio Division. “The corruption in the cases sentenced this week works like a cancer on the body politic, eating away public confidence in local government. We will make every effort to counter its effects and hold accountable those who abuse the public trust for their personal gain,” stated Acting United States Attorney Richard L. Durbin, Jr. “These defendants created a culture of corruption that spread throughout Maverick County, enabling theft and waste to thrive while taxpayers and honest businesses suffered,” stated FBI SAC Christopher Combs, San Antonio Division. United States District Judge Alia Moses sentenced: Former Maverick County Precinct 2 Commissioner Rodolfo Bainet Heredia, age 56, to 10 years in federal prison followed by three years of supervised release and ordered him to perform 1,200 hours of community service after completing his prison term. Heredia was also ordered to pay a maximum $567,003.88 in restitution to Maverick County. On June 4, 2013, Heredia pleaded guilty to one count of receiving a bribe by an agent of an organization receiving federal funds. By pleading guilty, Heredia admitted that in 2010 and 2011, he manipulated the bidding process to guarantee that contractors he chose would be awarded Maverick County construction contracts. Furthermore, Heredia admitted that he instructed the private contractors to submit inflated bids to Maverick County in order to ensure the availability of sufficient funds to perform the construction work, make a profit, and also to pay him bribes; Alejandra Garcia, a 28-year old former Maverick County employee whose duty was to issue Maverick County checks to private contractors, to 109 months in federal prison followed by three years of supervised release and ordered her to perform 800 hours of community service after completing her prison term. Garcia was also ordered to pay a maximum $382,254.29 in restitution to Maverick County and to report to federal authorities no later than June 8, 2015, to begin serving her prison term. In January 2013, Garcia pleaded guilty to receiving numerous cash payments of $200 to $500 in bribes from contractors and commissioners in return for her issuing thousands of dollars in Maverick County checks to contractors before the funds were approved for issuance by the Maverick County auditor’s office; Marcelo Alvarez, a 56-year-old surveyor and consultant from Eagle Pass, to 112 months in federal prison followed by three years of supervised release and ordered to pay a maximum $1,022,303.94 restitution to Maverick County. In April 2014, Alvarez pleaded guilty to one count of paying a bribe to an agent of an organization receiving federal funds. According to court documents, between 2010 and 2012, Alvarez paid $100 to $200 on multiple occasions to Maverick County elected officials, including two county commissioners, for their support in securing county construction projects. Ultimately, Maverick County paid in excess of $800,000 to Amistad Consulting, a company to which Alvarez was connected, to perform engineering, project management and consulting services for the county. Alvarez, designated by Amistad Consulting as the Resident Project Representative, received payment for his services of approximately $300,000 between 2010 and 2012; Salvador Castillon, 53-year-old owner of South Texas Concrete based in Eagle Pass, to 87 months in federal prison followed by three years of supervised release. Castillon was also ordered to pay a maximum $175,804.71 in restitution to Maverick County and perform 800 hours of community service after completing his prison term. Judge Moses also ordered that Castillon report to federal authorities by June 8, 2015, to begin serving his sentence. In December 2013, Castillon pleaded guilty to one count of paying a bribe to an agent of an organization receiving federal funds. According to court records, Castillon was awarded Maverick County construction contracts totaling $416,800 in 2010 and $148,000 in 2011. Castillon admitted that during that time period, he paid then Maverick County Precinct 2 commissioner Rodolfo Bainet Heredia approximately $57,000 in return for being awarded the construction contracts; and, Saul Lombrana, 65-year-old owner and operator of Fiesta Contractors based in Eagle Pass, to 33 months in federal prison followed by three years of supervised release. Lombrana was also ordered to pay a maximum $14,500.00 in restitution to Maverick County and perform 300 hours of community service after completing his prison term. Judge Moses also ordered that Lombrana report to federal authorities by June 8, 2015, to begin serving his sentence. In February 2014, Lombrana pleaded guilty to one count of paying a bribe to an agent of an organization receiving federal funds. By pleading guilty, Lombrana admitted that in March 2011, he submitted a $14,500 bid to construct 155 linear feet of concrete drain swell on Rafael Street in Precinct 1. After being awarded the contract, Lombrana never constructed the concrete drain swell, but requested and received full payment for the project. Of the $14,500 he received, Lombrana admittedly only kept $5,000 while giving the rest to a Maverick County employee Jaime Flores as a bribe. This afternoon, Judge Moses remanded Maverick County Precinct 4 Commissioner Cesar Flores into federal custody while postponing his sentencing. A new sentencing date has yet to be scheduled. On September 5, 2013, Flores pleaded guilty to one count of receiving a bribe. By pleading guilty, Flores admitted that he agreed to be influenced and rewarded for using his position to ensure that certain contractors were awarded construction contracts in Maverick County Precinct 4 in 2010 and in 2011. To date, eight individuals have been sentenced in connection with this investigation. Hipolito Amaya, Jose Aguilar and David Gelacio have previously received sentences of 41 months’ incarceration, 14 months’ incarceration and 12 months’ incarceration, respectively. Nine more defendants are scheduled for sentencing tomorrow in Del Rio before Judge Moses. This case is part of an ongoing investigation being conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation with assistance from Customs and Border Protection Office of Internal Affairs, Texas Department of Public Safety Criminal Investigative Division, Texas Rangers, the Drug Enforcement Administration, and the Eagle Pass ISD Police Department. Individuals who have first-hand information about corruption, fraud, or bribery related to Maverick County are urged to contact the FBI at (210) 225-6741. Assistant United States Attorneys Bryan N. Reeves, Michael Galdo and Katie Griffin prosecuted this case on behalf of the Government.
corruption This morning, FBI agents arrested 56-year-old former Maverick County Justice of the Peace and Eagle Pass businessman Cesar Iracheta on federal bribery charges in a “pay-to-play” scheme involving County construction contracts announced Acting United States Attorney Richard Durbin, Jr., and FBI Special Agent in Charge Christopher Combs, San Antonio Division. A federal grand jury indictment, returned on Wednesday and unsealed today, charges Iracheta with two counts of paying bribes. The indictment alleges that in 2010, Iracheta, doing business as C&A Construction, paid a bribe to a Maverick County commissioner in order to secure two Precinct 2 County construction contracts worth approximately $49,000. The indictment also alleges that in 2011, Iracheta paid a bribe to another Maverick County commissioner in order to secure a Precinct One County construction contract worth $22,500. According to the indictment, Iracheta submitted inflated bids to Maverick County in order for there to be sufficient funds to perform the construction work, make a profit, and pay bribes to the County commissioners. Upon conviction, Iracheta faces up to ten years in federal prison for each bribery charge. This ongoing investigation is being conducted by the FBI and the Texas Department of Public Safety Criminal Investigative Division together with the Customs and Border Protection Office of Internal Affairs. Individuals who have first-hand information about corruption, fraud, or bribery related to Maverick County are urged to contact the FBI at (210) 225-6741. Assistant United States Attorney Katherine Griffin and Bryan Reeves are prosecuting this case on behalf of the Government. An indictment is merely a charge and should not be considered as evidence of guilt. The defendant is presumed innocent until proven guilty in a court of law.
corruption RICHMOND, VA—The former First Lady of Virginia, Maureen G. McDonnell, 60, of Glen Allen, Virginia, was sentenced today to one year and one day in prison, for soliciting and obtaining payments, loans, gifts and other items from Star Scientific, a Virginia-based corporation, and Jonnie R. Williams Sr., Star Scientific’s then chief executive officer, in violation of federal public corruption laws. Dana J. Boente, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia; Leslie R. Caldwell, Assistant Attorney General of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division; Adam S. Lee, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI’s Richmond Field Office; Richard Weber, Chief, IRS Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI); and Colonel W. Steven Flaherty, Virginia State Police Superintendent, made the announcement after sentencing by Senior U.S. District Judge James R. Spencer. Former Virginia Governor Robert McDonnell and his wife, Maureen McDonnell, were convicted on Sept. 4, 2014, following a jury trial of one count of conspiracy to commit honest-services wire fraud and one count of conspiracy to obtain property under color of official right. Maureen McDonnell also was convicted of two counts of honest-services wire fraud and four counts of obtaining property under color of official right, while Robert McDonnell was convicted of three counts of honest-services wire fraud and six counts of obtaining property under color of official right. In total, Maureen McDonnell was convicted of eight of 13 counts and Robert McDonnell was convicted of 11 of 13 counts. According to the evidence presented at trial, from April 2011 through March 2013, the McDonnell’s participated in a scheme to use the former governor’s official position to enrich themselves and their family members by soliciting and obtaining payments, loans, gifts and other things of value from Star Scientific and Jonnie R. Williams Sr. The McDonnell’s obtained these items in exchange for the former governor performing official actions to legitimize, promote and obtain research studies for Star’s products, including the dietary supplement Anatabloc. According to evidence presented at trial, the McDonnell’s obtained from Williams more than $170,000 in direct payments as gifts and loans, thousands of dollars in golf outings, and numerous items. As part of the scheme, Robert McDonnell arranged meetings for Williams with Virginia government officials, hosted and attended events at the Governor’s Mansion designed to encourage Virginia university researchers to initiate studies of Star’s products and to promote Star’s products to doctors, contacted other Virginia government officials to encourage Virginia state research universities to initiate studies of Star’s products, and promoted Star’s products and facilitated its relationships with Virginia government officials. The evidence further showed that the McDonnell’s attempted to conceal the things of value received from Williams and Star to hide the nature and scope of their dealings with Williams from the citizens of Virginia by, for example, routing gifts and loans through family members and corporate entities controlled by the former governor to avoid annual disclosure requirements. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Michael S. Dry, Jessica D. Aber, and Ryan S. Faulconer of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia, and Deputy Chief David V. Harbach II of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section. The case is being investigated by the FBI’s Richmond Division, IRS-CI, and the Virginia State Police. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia or on PACER by searching for Case No. 3:14cr12.
corruption ATLANTA—Jeremy “Jerry” Clark, a former member of the DeKalb County Zoning Board of Appeals, has pleaded guilty to a federal bribery charge. Clark accepted money in exchange for his vote allowing a business to operate as a late-night dance club. “It took only $3,500 to subvert the purpose of this DeKalb zoning ordinance, which was to regulate the operation of late-night nightclubs,” said Acting United States Attorney John Horn. “This case demonstrates how a corrupt public official can sell out the legitimate interests of the communities and citizens he serves, solely for his own profit. DeKalb County citizens deserved better.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated: “The guilty plea of Mr. Clark should remind those in public office of the serious consequences of succumbing to the temptations that can come their way. The FBI’s Public Corruption Program remains prepared to identify, investigate, and present for prosecution those individuals who would abdicate their integrity for personal greed.” According to Acting United States Attorney Horn, the charges, and other information presented in court: In November 2008, the DeKalb County (Georgia) Board of Commissioners passed a zoning ordinance that regulated the placement and operation of late-night establishments and nightclubs. As a general matter, the ordinance mandated that new businesses must obtain a Special Land Use Permit if they wanted to operate either as a late-night establishment or as a nightclub. The zoning ordinance provided an exception to the new rule for pre-existing late-night establishments and nightclubs, which allowed those businesses to be grandfathered in under the 2008 zoning ordinance change. In DeKalb County, the Zoning Board of Appeals hears and decides zoning appeals when a property owner alleges that a county official committed a zoning error. From January 2009 to May 2013, Clark served as a member of the Zoning Board of Appeals. Based on the zoning change, in September 2012, the DeKalb County Department of Planning and Sustainability issued a warning to the owner of a late-night establishment in Tucker, Ga., (“Business Owner”), advising him that the establishment could not operate as a nightclub without a Special Land Use Permit. The Business Owner responded that the establishment had operated as a nightclub prior to the 2008 zoning ordinance—and as a result, should be grandfathered in as a nightclub under the new zoning rule. Notably, almost a year earlier in November 2011, the Department of Planning and Sustainability had advised the late-night establishment in writing that it was grandfathered in only as a late-night business, could not operate as a nightclub, and could not have a dance floor. Ultimately, the Business Owner appealed the decision to the DeKalb County Zoning Board of Appeals. Prior to the hearing on the appeal, Clark met with the Business Owner. During those meetings, the Business Owner made it clear to Clark, that if the Zoning Board of Appeals approved the Business Owner’s request to operate as a nightclub, Clark would be rewarded. In November 2012, the Zoning Board of Appeals approved the Business Owner’s request to operate as a nightclub. Clark voted in favor of the Business Owner. Thereafter, the Business Owner paid Clark approximately $2000 in cash and donated approximately $1,500 to a non-profit interest with which Clark was involved. On February 10, 2015, Clark, 42, of Lithonia, Ga., was charged in a criminal information with one count of bribery. The sentencing hearing is scheduled for April 30, 2015, at 10:00 a.m., before United States District Judge Leigh Martin May. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Jeffrey W. Davis is prosecuting the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Presse-mails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the home page for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Atlanta Division is http://www.justice.gov/usao/gan/.
corruption ALEXANDRIA, VA—John L. Jones, 76, of Stafford, Virginia, pleaded guilty today to his role in a contracting bribery scheme involving the Army National Guard and major government contractor. Dana J. Boente, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia; and Andrew G. McCabe, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office, made the announcement after sentencing by U.S. District Judge Liam O’Grady. According to court documents, Jones was formerly a Brigadier General with the Army National Guard, and after retiring he founded Military Personnel Services Corporation (MPSC). While at MPSC, Jones was part of a bribery scheme in which he and co-conspirators agreed to pay and paid a National Guard official a percentage of the over $5.5 million worth of contracts that the official steered to MPSC. Jones faces a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison when he is sentenced on September 18, 2015. The maximum statutory sentence is prescribed by Congress and is provided here for informational purposes, as the sentencing of the defendant will be determined by the court based on the advisory Sentencing Guidelines and other statutory factors. This case was investigated by the FBI’s Washington Field Office, with assistance from Defense Criminal Investigative Service’s Mid-Atlantic Field Office, and the Army Criminal Investigative Division’s Expeditionary Fraud Resident Agency’s Major Procurement Fraud Unit. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Jonathan L. Fahey and Trial Attorney Alison L. Anderson of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia or on PACER by searching for Case No. 1:14cr323
corruption Preet Bharara, United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, announced today that JOHN L. MONTANEZ, a former police officer with the New York City Police Department (“NYPD”), was sentenced today in Manhattan federal court to 28 months in prison for credit card fraud and identity theft. Sentence was imposed by U.S. District Judge Katherine Polk Failla. Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said: “While a Police Officer, John Montanez engaged in credit card fraud and identity theft. As Montanez said on tape, ‘I am not the cop you think I am.’ For certain, he was not the cop the public deserved and not one who deserved to carry an NYPD badge. By breaking the law, John Montanez not only threatened the safety of others, but also undermined the position of law enforcement as a pursuer of justice. We will continue to actively prosecute cases of police corruption.” According to the Complaint, Information, prior filings, and today’s proceeding: In 2011, an individual, who subsequently agreed to cooperate with law enforcement (the “CW”), informed MONTANEZ, who was at the time a police officer with the NYPD, that the CW had a suspended and/or revoked driver’s license. In response, MONTANEZ offered to provide the CW with the name and driver’s license number of a real person—so that if the CW were stopped by law enforcement, the CW could pretend to be someone else—in return for items that the CW would purchase for MONTANEZ with fraudulently obtained or stolen credit cards. After that, in return for the CW purchasing merchandise for MONTANEZ, and providing to MONTANEZ credit card/debit card numbers that MONTANEZ understood were stolen or fraudulently obtained, MONTANEZ provided to the CW multiple names, dates of birth, and driver’s license identification numbers of other people. One such person, referred to in the Complaint as “Victim-1,” was a fellow police officer with the NYPD, serving in the same precinct as MONTANEZ. The CW was arrested in June 2013 and later began recording meetings with MONTANEZ as part of the CW’s cooperation with law enforcement. During these meetings, MONTANEZ offered to provide additional identities to the CW in return for merchandise purchased with credit cards that MONTANEZ believed the CW had stolen or fraudulently obtained. In one recorded meeting, MONTANEZ said to the CW: “I am not the cop you think I am. I am a piece of s***.” In connection with MONTANEZ’s arrest, law enforcement executed a search of his apartment and of his locker at his precinct. The search of the apartment yielded, among other things, identification documents in other names and a device allowing for the swiping of a credit/debit card. The search of the locker yielded 16 identification documents in other names, including driver’s licenses, benefits cards, and Social Security cards. The identification documents obtained from the search of the locker appeared to come from arrests that MONTANEZ effected or participated in throughout the course of his career as a police officer. * * * MONTANEZ, 28, of the Bronx, New York, pleaded guilty in August 2014 to one count of access device fraud and one count of aggravated identity theft. In addition to his prison term, he was sentenced to two years of supervised release, and was ordered to forfeit $2,500, and pay a $200 special assessment. Mr. Bharara thanked the Bronx County District Attorney’s Office, which worked to develop evidence implicating MONTANEZ and assisted in the investigation and prosecution. Mr. Bharara also praised the investigative work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the NYPD Internal Affairs Bureau. The case is being handled by the Office’s Public Corruption Unit. Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel C. Richenthal is in charge of the prosecution. Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption The United States Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania announced that former Pennsylvania State Treasurer Robert M. McCord pleaded guilty to two counts of attempted extortion in violation of Title 18, United States Code Section 1951(a). Each count is punishable by up to 20 years’ imprisonment and fine of up to $250,000. U.S. District Court Judge John E. Jones, III, accepted the guilty plea and scheduled a pre-sentence conference for June 29, 2015. Mr. McCord admitted that he attempted to extort campaign contributions from a law firm and a property management company while he was running for Governor by threatening economic harm to the potential donors if they failed to make sufficient campaign contributions. In particular, McCord threatened to use his position as State Treasurer to interfere with the business that the law firm and property management firm were conducting with the state if they did not make the contributions. First Assistant U.S. Attorney Dennis C. Pfannenschmidt was designated United States Attorney for this case because United States Attorney Peter J. Smith recused himself. Mr. Smith previously worked for Mr. McCord for a short period of time at the Pennsylvania Treasury Department. Mr. Pfannenschmidt stated that “public corruption cases are some of the most serious cases our office handles and this case indicates a serious breach of the public trust. Our office is committed to working with our law enforcement partners in holding public officials responsible for their violation of the public trust.” “The citizens of the Commonwealth expect and deserve public officials who perform their duties free of deceit, favoritism, bias, self-enrichment, concealment and conflict of interest,” said Special Agent in Charge Edward J. Hanko of the Philadelphia Division of the FBI. “Public corruption is an erosion of the public’s trust in our system of government, and the FBI stands committed to holding public officials accountable when they violate their oaths of office and betray that trust.” “The abuse of power by elected officials tears at the fabric of society, undermines the rule of law and weakens public confidence in government,” said Major Andrew Ashmar, Pennsylvania State Police, Bureau of Criminal Investigation. “The Pennsylvania State Police is steadfast in our commitment to bring to justice those who use the power of their office for personal gain rather than serving the best interest of the public.” “When our public officials fail to uphold the integrity of the office to which they were elected, the Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation Division is committed to working with our fellow law enforcement agencies to restore the public’s trust,” said Special Agent in Charge Akeia Conner. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Pennsylvania State Police, and the Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation Division. The prosecution is assigned to Assistant United States Attorneys Michael A. Consiglio, William S. Houser, and Gordon A. D. Zubrod. *** Indictments and Criminal Informations are only allegations. All persons charged are presumed to be innocent unless and until found guilty in court. A sentence following a finding of guilty is imposed by the Judge after consideration of the applicable federal sentencing statutes and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines. In this case, the maximum penalty under the federal statute is 20 years’ imprisonment, a term of supervised release following imprisonment, and a fine. Under the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, the Judge is also required to consider and weigh a number of factors, including the nature, circumstances and seriousness of the offense; the history and characteristics of the defendant; and the need to punish the defendant, protect the public and provide for the defendant’s educational, vocational and medical needs. For these reasons, the statutory maximum penalty for the offense is not an accurate indicator of the potential sentence for a specific defendant.
corruption LOUISVILLE, KY—Hillview, Kentucky Police Chief Glenn A. Caple was convicted today of making a false statement to federal agents when questioned about his knowledge and involvement in moving evidence found on an elected official’s property on January 4, 2012, announced Acting United States Attorney John E. Kuhn, Jr. “We thank the jurors for their consideration of the evidence in reaching a unanimous guilty verdict,” stated Acting U.S. Attorney John Kuhn. “We must have faith and trust in our police that they will follow the letter of the law – and will be honest with other law enforcement agents investigating crimes. We cannot have our police knowingly and willfully lying to federal agents out of expedience or self-interest. Chief Caple knew better; he broke the law and an important public trust.” During the four-day trial, the United States proved that Caple lied to federal agents on April 26, 2012, when he was questioned by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) about his involvement in directing subordinate Hillview Police officers to move evidence, a backpack characterized as a mobile meth lab, from its original location on the residence of the Hillview mayor and/or initially stating to federal agents that the suspected backpack was not found by Hillview police on the mayor’s property. Hillview, Kentucky is a city of approximately 9,400 residents located in Bullitt County, Kentucky near Jefferson County. Hillview police officers testified under oath that a mobile meth lab in a black backpack was found in a tire next to a garage on the mayor’s property. They further testified that Chief Caple asked a Hillview police officer to move the backpack to a location believed to be off of the mayor’s property and failed to report the incident, in order to protect the mayor from bad publicity. Jurors deliberated just over one hour before reaching a guilty verdict. Sentencing is scheduled before Senior District Judge Charles R. Simpson III on May 18, 2015, in Louisville. Caple faces no more than five years in prison, a fine of $250,000 and a three year period of supervised release. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Thomas Dyke and Marisa Ford and was investigated by the Louisville field office of the FBI.
corruption PROVIDENCE, RI—Former North Providence town councilman and former Rhode Island Deputy Secretary of State Paul Caranci has been awarded the prestigious 2014 Margaret Chase Smith American Democracy Award, presented by the National Association of Secretaries of State (NASS) for “acts of political courage.” Mr. Caranci was honored in Washington on Wednesday for his role in assisting the FBI and the United States Attorney’s Office during an investigation into political corruption within the North Providence town council in 2010. Mr. Caranci, who first alerted law enforcement to a kickback scheme to ensure enough votes for the approval of a zoning variance which was before the council, was instrumental in the investigation and the successful prosecution of three town councilmen and an attorney who masterminded and participated in the bribery scheme. It is the first time in the 22-year history of the award that a Secretary of State Office representative has received the honor. Former recipients include former U.S. Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O’Connor, Civil Rights heroine Rosa Parks, former U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and former President Jimmy Carter. According to a NASS press release announcing the award in July 2014, “Mr. Caranci was nominated for the award by Indiana Secretary of State Connie Lawson for his courage in working with the FBI and other law enforcement entities to expose public corruption and bribery schemes that were masterminded by three of his fellow town councilmen in North Providence, R.I., placing his own political career and personal and family safety at great risk.” “Being selected to receive the Margaret Chase Smith Award by the nation’s Secretaries of State and all of the officials who comprise the organization is an extraordinary honor,” remarked Paul Caranci. “More than that, it is an amazing opportunity for me to reunite with so many wonderful friends. I am grateful for their considerations and their many friendships.” “The fight against public corruption, so critical in Rhode Island, cannot be waged effectively unless residents who are aware of it come forward and report it,” said United States Attorney Peter F. Neronha. “In the North Providence case, Mr. Caranci, unlike some others, saw corruption and decided to do something about it. He had no obligation to do so. He wasn’t directly impacted by it. He could have done nothing. And yet, to the consternation of some, he decided to do the right thing.” Mr. Neronha added, “When every Rhode Islander reacts to corruption like Mr. Caranci did, we will eliminate this blight on our state. Mr. Caranci has my enormous gratitude, and he deserves the gratitude of all Rhode Islanders.” Vincent B. Lisi, Special Agent in Charge of the Boston Field Office of the FBI noted, “Mr. Caranci’s cooperation was critical to uncovering the depth of this conspiracy. Concerned citizens like him are the FBI’s biggest asset in rooting out public corruption and exposing those who have abused the public’s trust. We thank him for his selfless donation of time in support of this case.”
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, announced that RALPH CROZIER, 63, was sentenced today by Chief U.S. District Judge Janet C. Hall in New Haven to 30 months of imprisonment, followed by three years of supervised release, for laundering drug money. He also was ordered to pay a $25,000 fine. On September 25, 2014, a jury found CROZIER guilty of one count of conspiracy to launder monetary instruments and one count of attempt to launder monetary instruments. According to the evidence at trial, law enforcement began investigating CROZIER, an attorney based in Seymour, after receiving information from a convicted narcotics trafficker who was in federal custody. The narcotics trafficker stated that he was a former client of CROZIER and that CROZIER had convinced him to invest $30,000 in cash into CROZIER’s law partner’s solar energy company. CROZIER knew that the cash was derived from his client’s narcotics trafficking activities. In 2013, the narcotics trafficker’s mother agreed to wear a recording device while meeting with CROZIER to discuss her son’s prior investment. On April 11, 2013, the woman brought $11,000 in DEA funds to a meeting with CROZIER, representing that her son had hidden the cash and wanted her to bring it to CROZIER. The conversation during the meeting made it clear that the money had been illegally derived from drug dealing. CROZIER accepted the cash and told the woman that he was going to make out the receipt in her son’s name, stating “I don’t want to put your name on anything because I don’t want you involved with hiding things from the Feds.” CROZIER was arrested shortly after the woman left his office. “Attorney Crozier readily agreed to launder drug money for a narcotics dealer,” stated U.S. Attorney. “Money laundering is always a serious offense, but it is all the more serious when committed by an officer of the court. As attorneys are appropriately held to a higher standard, Crozier’s crimes are particularly troubling. This sentence reflects the seriousness of his offense and proper punishment for a lawyer who used his law license for criminal purposes.” CROZIER, who is released on a $200,000 bond, was ordered to report to prison on April 17, 2015. This matter was investigated by the Drug Enforcement Administration’s Bridgeport High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area Task Force and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Rahul Kale and Robert Spector, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Charles Rombeau of the District of New Hampshire.
corruption HONOLULU—Former corrections officer Feso Malufau, age 55, was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge Leslie E. Kobayashi to 97 months’ imprisonment on charges that he conspired with the USO Family prison gang to obtain and smuggle methamphetamine and other contraband into Halawa Correctional Facility. A federal jury found Malufau guilty of racketeering on October 10, 2014, following a nine-day jury trial. Florence T. Nakakuni, United States Attorney for the District of Hawaii, said that according to information presented during the trial, other conspirators paid Malufau thousands of dollars to smuggle drugs, including methamphetamine, and cigarettes into prison and deliver them to USO gang members. In rendering the sentence, Judge Kobayashi addressed the dangers of injecting methamphetamine into the “powder keg” of a prison facility. As reasons for the length of the sentence, she pointed to Malufau’s abuse of the public trust (as a sergeant), his endangerment of the lives of his co-workers and vulnerable prison inmates, and his contributions to emboldening the powerful USO Family gang. Judge Kobayashi described the evidence against him at trial as “overwhelming,” and expressed a desire for the sentence to send a message to others considering engaging in similar behavior that it is not worth the risk. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Internal Revenue Service, the State of Hawaii Department of Public Safety, and the Honolulu Police Department. Assistant United States Attorneys Thomas J. Brady and Jill Otake prosecuted this case.
corruption WICHITA, KS—A former city clerk of Altoona, Kan., pleaded guilty Wednesday to bank fraud, U.S. Attorney Barry Grissom said. Chrystal Scherbarth, 30, Altoona, Kan., pleaded guilty to one count of bank fraud. In her plea, she admitted the crime occurred while she was employed as city clerk. She used her access to the city’s accounts at the First Neodesha Bank to commit the crime. The city of Altoona suffered a total loss of more than $47,800. Scherbarth diverted money from the city by fraudulently increasing her own hourly pay, fraudulently paying herself for overtime, fraudulently crediting herself with unearned paid vacation and fraudulently crediting herself with unearned sick leave. Sentencing is set for April 29. She faces a maximum penalty of 30 years in federal prison and a fine up to $1 million. Grissom commended the FBI and Assistant U.S. Attorney Aaron Smith for their work on the case.
corruption LAFAYETTE, LA—United States Attorney Stephanie A. Finley announced today that a federal grand jury has indicted a former Carencro Police Officer for receiving cash payments from Desperado’s Gentlemen’s Cabaret. Timothy “Timmy” Prejean, 42, of Carencro, was indicted on one count of interference with commerce by extortion under color of official right, one count of obtaining information by computer from government or protected computer, and two counts of false statements or representations made to a department or agency of the United States. The indictment alleges that Prejean, in addition to his other law enforcement duties as a Carencro Police Officer, was designated to manage the issuance of exotic dancer permits for the Carencro Police Department and enforced related ordinances. According to the indictment, from January 1, 2007, until December 5, 2012, Prejean received regular cash payments and extra money for a vacation and personal expenses from Desperado’s owners James and Jennifer Panos. The indictment further alleges that Prejean ran a criminal history for James Panos on March 16, 2012, using government agency computers in excess of his authorization. The indictment also alleges that Prejean later lied to FBI and DEA agents on May 20, 2013, about the payments from James and Jennifer Panos, and Prejean also lied to FBI agents on August 16, 2013, about accessing the government database.
corruption NEW HAVEN, CT—A former corrections officer was sentenced today to 28 months in prison for his role in a mortgage fraud scheme arising from the purchases of more than 50 properties in New Haven, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced today. Ronald Hutchison Jr., 52, of Hopewell Junction, New York, previously pleaded guilty on Jan.10, 2012, to an indictment charging him with conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud. Chief U.S. District Judge Janet C. Hall imposed the sentence today in New Haven federal court. According to documents filed in this case and the evidence at trial: From 2006 to 2008, Hutchison and others conspired to defraud mortgage lenders of millions of dollars of mortgage proceeds by inflating the contract price that the sellers of the properties had actually agreed to accept. The scheme involved multi-family properties in New Haven. The lower sale price, which ranged from approximately $30,000 to $145,000 less than the contract price, was not disclosed to the lenders from which the buyers obtained financing to purchase the properties. In most of the fraudulent transactions, the buyers did not make any deposits or down payments. Hutchison and his conspirators used some of the fraudulently obtained mortgage proceeds to cover the down payments and deposits. At or shortly after a closing, the borrowers would often receive thousands to tens of thousands of dollars in cash back, although these payments were not disclosed to the lender. Hutchison and his conspirators submitted to mortgage lenders false HUD-1 forms that often did not match another, undisclosed HUD-1 form that was actually used to disburse the fraudulently obtained proceeds at the closing. As a result of the submission of the false HUD-1 forms and other false documentation in support of the loan, including fictitious leases and false information about the borrower’s assets and liabilities, the mortgage lenders would issue mortgages based on the inflated sales price. Hutchison was a corrections officer at the Westchester County, New York, Department of Corrections from1989 to 2011. He purchased 13 properties himself and recruited his co-workers who purchased an additional 40 properties. All of the purchases were made without disclosing the existence of inflated contract prices, secret contract addenda that contained large repair credits, false leases, and other false documentation. Hutchison received approximately $100,000 in cash back at the closings and an additional $200,000 from his co-workers as referral fees. Nearly all of the properties purchased as part of this conspiracy went into default and have been foreclosed upon, causing losses of more than $7 million to lenders. In addition to the prison term, Judge Hall sentenced Hutchison to serve three years of supervised release and pay restitution of $2.6 million. He will self-surrender to the Bureau of Prisons in by April 10, 2015. Ten defendants have been charged and convicted for their participation in this mortgage fraud conspiracy, including two loan officers, four attorneys, two buyers and a real estate agent. Andrew Constantinou, Genevieve Salvatore, Bradford Rieger, Lawrence Dressler, Kwame Nkrumah, and Jacques Kelly have each been sentenced. Menachem Yosef Levitin, Charles Lesser, and Jeffrey Weisman each await sentencing. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited the FBI, the U.S. Postal Inspection Service, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development—Office of Inspector General, and the Federal Housing Finance Agency—Office of Inspector General, which identified multiple Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans that went into foreclosure, with the investigation leading to today’s sentencing. The government is represented in the criminal cases by Assistant U.S. Attorney David T. Huang and Special Assistant U.S. Attorney John McReynolds of the U.S. Attorney’s Office, District of Connecticut; the parallel civil forfeiture cases are being handled by Assistant U.S. Attorney Julie G. Turbert, U.S. Attorney’s Office, District of Connecticut. The U.S. Attorney for the District of New Jersey has been overseeing the case because of the recusal of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Connecticut. To report financial fraud crimes, and to learn more about the President’s Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force, please visit www.stopfraud.gov.
corruption BUFFALO, NY—U.S. Attorney William J. Hochul, Jr. announced today that Debbie Buckley, 54, of Niagara Falls, NY, was charged by criminal complaint with theft of government funds. The charge carries a maximum penalty of 10 years and a $250,000 fine. In addition, Buckley’s son, Hassan El Saddique, who was arrested and charged by criminal complaint on January 13, 2015, has been indicted by a federal grand jury, also on a charge of theft of government funds. “Those in positions of trust must be held to a higher standard,” said U.S. Attorney Hochul. “This defendant was responsible for disbursing federal funding to children in our community who need it the most. Instead she stands accused of lining her pockets and those of her son with money targeted to assist school kids.” “Today’s charges allege that Mrs. Buckley knowingly and willfully abused her position of trust to steal funds from the very ones she promised to serve—the children of Buffalo Public Schools. That is completely unacceptable,” said Geoffrey Wood, Assistant Special Agent in Charge of the U.S. Department of Education Office of Inspector General’s Mid-Atlantic Regional Office. “OIG Special Agents will continue to aggressively pursue those who seek to enrich themselves at the expense of our nation’s students. America’s students, their families, and taxpayers deserve nothing less.” Assistant U.S. Attorneys Kathleen A. Lynch and Stephanie Lamarque, who is handling the case, stated that Debbie Buckley served as Supervisor of Title I, Office of Federal and State Programs for the Buffalo School District. Title I is a federally funded program that provides assistance to school districts with high numbers of children from low income families. In March 2010, Buckley was promoted to Assistant Superintendent of Federal and State Programs. In June 2009, Buckley met with a representative of the Universal School which moved into the City of Buffalo. During the meeting, Buckley asked for and was provided with blank Universal School letterhead signed by the representative. The defendant indicated the letterhead would be used to include the Universal School with other non-public schools to increase resources available. According to the complaint, a record obtained during the investigation included an undated letter on Universal School letterhead purportedly written by the school representative. The letter, addressed to Buckley, requested Hassan El Saddique to administer the Title I computer assisted program at the Universal School during the 2009-10 school year. The complaint further states that the school representative did not write or sign the letter, the Universal School did not have a Title I computer assisted program, nor did El Saddique ever work at the school. While El Saddique did not work at the Universal School, he did work at Bishop Timon High School in Buffalo. El Saddique was told the Title I funding at Timon was obligated so he agreed to volunteer at the school. Subsequently, El Saddique was contracted to assist with a Title I after school program at Timon. According to the complaint, El Saddique submitted invoices to the Buffalo School District for the period of September 8, 2009 through June 30, 2010 when in fact, the regular Title 1 program at Bishop Timon ran November 2, 2009 through the end of May, 2010. In addition to submitting invoices for days not worked at Timon, El Saddique also submitted invoices for services that were never performed at the Universal School. According to the complaint, Buckley changed the approval process by which a contractor was paid for Title I services provided in non-public schools. The defendant eliminated the need for a signature from an official at the non-public school. Some of the invoices submitted by El Saddique included the name of an employee of the Universal School where he never actually worked while other invoices contained an illegible signature. In addition, Debbie Buckley’s name appears on three of these invoices that did not contain a signature from a non-public school official. The dates of these invoices coincide with the period during which Buckley was promoted to Assistant Superintendent. El Saddique received 18 paychecks from the Buffalo School District totaling $15,120. Of those paychecks, 13 were deposited into two union accounts controlled by Buckley for a total of $10,320 and another check was cashed using one of those accounts. Buckley made an initial appearance this morning before U.S. Magistrate Judge H. Kenneth Schroeder and was released on bond. Hassan El Saddique was arraigned this morning before U.S. Magistrate Judge Hugh B. Scott. He pleaded not guilty and continues to be released on bond. Oral argument on motions is scheduled for June 25, 2015 at 10:00 a.m. The criminal complaint and indictment are the culmination of an investigation on the part of Special Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the U.S. Department of Education, Office of Inspector General, under the direction of Assistant Special Agent in Charge Geoff Wood. The fact that a defendant has been charged with a crime is merely an accusation and the defendant is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—Christopher Saravello, 37, ofPhiladelphia, PA, pleaded guilty today, to a scheme to extort drugs and money from drug dealers and drug buyers while working as a Philadelphia Police Officer. He was charged with one count of conspiracy to commit Hobbs Act extortion and five counts of Hobbs Act extortion. Between November 2011 and June 2012, while employed as a Philadelphia Police Officer assigned to the 6th District, Saravello conspired with others to rob drug dealers and drug buyers of cash and Oxycontin and other controlled substances. Saravello’s co-conspirators would alert him to a drug transaction. Saravello would then interrupt the planned drug transaction, identifying himself as a law enforcement officer by approaching the transaction in a marked police vehicle, wearing a police uniform, displaying an official badge and identification, or verbally identifying himself as a police officer. Saravello seized the money or narcotics brought to the transaction by the buyer or seller victim and shared the seized proceeds with his co-conspirators. In doing so, Saravello used his position as a police officer to extort drugs and money from others. The scheme resulted in the illegal taking of more than $9,800 in drug money and quantities of Oxycontin and other narcotics. U.S. district Court Judge Eduardo Robreno scheduled a sentencing hearing for June 2, 2015<x-apple-data-detectors://2>. Saravello faces a maximum possible sentence of 120 years in prison, $1.5 million fine, three years of supervised release and a $600 special assessment. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Philadelphia Police Department and is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Arlene Fisk.
corruption HATTIESBURG, MS—John T. “Tim” Pittman, 54, a former Public Works General Manager for the City of Hattiesburg, pled guilty today in U.S. District Court to conspiracy involving a kickback scheme which defrauded the U.S. Department of Agriculture, announced U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis, FBI Special Agent in Charge Donald Alway, and Acting Special Agent in Charge Patrick Munday with the USDA Office of Inspector General. Pittman’s father, T.L. Pittman, Jr., owns multiple apartment complexes throughout the State of Mississippi which were financed through the USDA. T.L. Pittman, Jr., through his company Century Management, Inc., hired a contractor to do work for one of his USDA-financed apartment complexes with the agreement that the contractor would kick back part of the contract to T.L. Pittman, Jr. Century Management then awarded various contracts to the contractor, who kicked back money to T.L. Pittman, Jr. and his son, John T. “Tim” Pittman for the awarding of such contracts. Pittman will be sentenced by U.S. District Court Judge Keith Starrett on May 18, 2015, at 1:45 p.m. The maximum penalty for conspiracy is five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the USDA Office of Inspector General. Assistant U.S. Attorney Mike Hurst is prosecuting the case.
corruption Preet Bharara, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, and Thomas P. Zugibe, the Rockland County District Attorney, announced that former New York State Senate leader MALCOLM SMITH was found guilty in federal court of bribing New York City Republican leaders, including Queens County Republican Party Vice Chairman VINCENT TABONE, who was also convicted of receiving bribes, to allow SMITH, a Democrat, to run as a Republican candidate for New York City Mayor in 2013. SMITH was also found guilty of extortion for his role in obtaining New York State funding for a real estate project in Spring Valley, New York, in exchange for cash bribes paid on his behalf to the New York City Republican Party chairmen. In addition, TABONE was convicted of witness tampering when he attempted to persuade former Queens County Republican Party Chairman Philip Ragusa not to testify against him. The two were convicted after a four-week jury trial before U.S. District Judge Kenneth M. Karas. Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said: “As the jury unanimously found, the give-and-take of the political process should not be the giving and taking of bribes, which is what Malcolm Smith and Vincent Tabone tried to make it. Smith gave, and Tabone took, a $25,000 cash bribe to permit Smith to run for New York City Mayor as a Republican. Smith and Tabone were not alone in this scheme—Smith also bribed Daniel Halloran, another Republican Party official. And sadly, this was just one of many pockets of corruption this Office has uncovered in New York, which has become the ‘show me the money’ state. It should not be asking too much to expect public officials at least to obey the law. This Office will continue the vigorous prosecution of political corruption until every public official understands that violating the public trust will likely land you in prison.” Rockland County District Attorney Thomas P. Zugibe said: “The facts put forth at this trial and the resulting verdict clearly display how official corruption can potentially impact our system of government and how it can be stopped. I’d like to thank the United States Attorney’s Office for taking this case to a successful conclusion and I commend our federal partners and the members of my staff for their efforts. I look forward to future success in rooting out corruption through the continued efforts of the United States Attorney’s Office, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Rockland County District Attorney’s Office through our Public Corruption Task Force.” According to the Complaint and the Indictment filed in federal court and the evidence presented at trial: The Bribery and Extortion Schemes SMITH was first elected to the New York State Senate in November 2000, and represented a district within Queens, New York. He was Chairman of the Independent Democratic Conference of the State Senate and, among other positions, has served as the State Senate’s minority and majority leader and acting lieutenant governor. From November 2012 through April 2, 2013, SMITH agreed with former New York City councilman Daniel Halloran, who was convicted in a separate trial, and an undercover FBI agent posing as a wealthy real estate developer (the “UC”), and a cooperating witness (“CW”) to bribe New York City Republican Party county leaders, including TABONE, in exchange for their authorization for SMITH to appear as a Republican candidate for New York City Mayor in 2013, even though SMITH is a registered Democrat. SMITH participated in two overlapping criminal schemes that involved the payment of bribes to obtain official action. First, SMITH authorized the payment of $110,000 in cash bribes to be paid to leaders of the New York City Republican Party, including TABONE, so that they would allow SMITH to run for mayor on the Republican Party’s ballot line. Second, SMITH agreed to use his influence to help steer at least $500,000 in New York State transportation funding to a real estate project the UC and CW had proposed to develop in Spring Valley, New York, in exchange for the UC and CW paying bribes on SMITH’s behalf to the New York City Republican Party Chairs. In furtherance of the scheme, SMITH authorized the UC and the CW to meet TABONE, the Executive Vice Chairman of the Queens County Republican Party, Joseph Savino, the Chairman of the Bronx County Republican Party, and other party leaders. During a meeting with the UC, TABONE accepted a $25,000 cash bribe in a dimly lit SUV parked in front of a Manhattan restaurant and agreed to accept another $25,000 after his committee authorized SMITH to compete in the Republican primary. Savino similarly accepted a $15,000 cash bribe and agreed to accept another $15,000 after he voted to authorize SMITH to compete for the Republican ballot line. In return for his efforts in negotiating the bribes, Daniel Halloran accepted $15,500 as a down payment on a “broker’s” fee of at least $75,000 and expected to be appointed First Deputy Mayor if Smith was elected mayor. Witness Tampering Shortly before the start of a previously scheduled trial, the Government sought permission from the Court to take the deposition of Philip Ragusa, the former Chairman of the Queens County Republican Party. Ragusa, who was gravely ill at the time, was expected to testify favorably to the Government. Over TABONE’s objections, the Court ordered the deposition to take place. An hour before the scheduled start of the deposition, TABONE unexpectedly appeared at Ragusa’s home and attempted to pressure Ragusa not to testify against him. * * * SMITH, 57, and TABONE, 48, both of Queens, New York, were found guilty of one count of conspiracy, which carries a maximum sentence of five years in prison; one count of wire fraud, which carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison; and one count of Travel Act bribery, which carries a maximum sentence of five years in prison. SMITH was separately convicted of one count of extortion, which carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison, and TABONE was separately convicted of one count of witness tampering, which carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison. Each of the counts of conviction also carries a maximum fine of $250,000, or twice the gross gain or loss from the offense. SMITH and TABONE are scheduled to be sentenced by Judge Karas on July 1, 2015, at 10:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m., respectively. Mr. Bharara praised the outstanding investigative work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Rockland County District Attorney’s Office. This case is being handled by the Office’s White Plains Division and Public Corruption Unit. Assistant United States Attorneys Douglas B. Bloom, Justin Anderson and Perry Carbone are in charge of the prosecution. Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—Former Philadelphia Police Officers Jonathan Garcia, 26, and Sydemy Joanis, 28, both of Philadelphia, were sentenced today to 210 months and 63 months, respectively, for a scheme to rob drug dealers of their cash proceeds. Garcia pleaded guilty July 30, 2013 to distribution of heroin, conspiracy to commit robbery, robbery, attempted robbery, and carrying a firearm during and in relation to a crime of violence. Joanis pleaded guilty February 11, 2014 to conspiracy to commit robbery, robbery, attempted robbery, and carrying a firearm during and in relation to a crime of violence. The defendants were assigned to the 17th Police District when, in December 2009, they entered into a scheme by which they agreed to rob suspected drug dealers. Sometimes the defendants would stop and frisk individuals who were allegedly loitering, and if the defendants recovered any drugs, they would arrest the person and steal some or all of his money. Other times the defendants utilized Person #1, who, at the defendants’ direction, would meet with a suspected drug dealer inside the dealer’s car, buy a small quantity of drugs (usually crack cocaine), and then leave some of the drugs in plain view on the floorboard of the car. After Person #1 exited the dealer’s car, the defendants would pull up in their PPD patrol car, stop the dealer, and after seeing the drugs in plain view, arrest the dealer and ultimately steal some or all of the dealer’s money, which the defendants would split amongst themselves. When committing these robberies, the defendants wore their PPD uniform and openly carried firearms. To conceal their crimes, the defendants falsified police reports by failing to disclose their use of Person #1 and fabricating the basis for the stop, and by failing to disclose some or all of the money that they had stolen. In addition to the prison terms, U.S. District Court Judge Legrome Davis ordered Garcia to pay a fine of $5,000, a special assessment of $900, and ordered five years of supervised release; Joanis was ordered to pay a fine of $2,000, a special assessment of $400, and was ordered to complete three years of supervised release. The case was investigated by the FBI and the Philadelphia Police Department and was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Kevin R. Brenner.
corruption BEAUMONT, TX—A former Beaumont Independent School District (BISD) Assistant Superintendent was one of two employees indicted on federal charges in the Eastern District of Texas, announced U.S. Attorney John M. Bales today. Patricia Adams Lambert, 60, of Beaumont and Victoria Gauthier Steward, 31, of Lake Charles, LA, were named in the five-count indictment returned by a federal grand jury today. Lambert and Steward are accused of conspiring to cheat on standardized test results while Lambert is also alleged to have embezzled over $750,000 from the school district. According to the indictment, Lambert is alleged to have devised several schemes to defraud the school district and even the students directly while employed with BISD. In October 2006, while Lambert was principal of Central Medical Magnet High School (CMMHS), she took control of the CMMHS booster club, which raises money to support various athletic teams at the school. The booster club raises funds largely through concession sales at football games and had been controlled by parents in the past. Lambert is alleged to have diverted funds from the booster club account, which was not subject to BISD oversight or auditing, by writing checks payable to her children and then depositing them directly into her own personal account. In addition to stealing directly from the booster club account, Lambert is also alleged to have diverted funds which traditionally had been deposited into the Student Activity Account, which is subject to oversight and auditing, to the booster club account. An example of diverted funds is student transcript fees, which are usually $5 or less. Lambert also diverted money from the Medical Magnet program to the booster club account. Students enrolled in the program, which allows them to earn college credit while attending high school, were required to pay tuition fees which amounted to $275 per student per year for the 2010-2011 school year. However, Lambert is alleged to have inflated the fees, requiring students enrolled in the program to pay $1,000 per student per semester and that payments be made in cash or by money order. In 2007, Lambert assisted a close family member in becoming an authorized vendor with BISD. From 2007-2013, Lambert directed that all printing and graphic work prepared for CMMHS be done through her family member’s companies. This scheme alone resulted in approximately $480,000 paid by CMMHS or BISD at Lambert’s direction. The indictment alleges that Lambert’s fraudulent activity amounted to $751,602.76. The indictment also alleges that in order to increase the standardized test scores at CMMHS, Lambert directed others to change students’ tests before submitting the answer documents to the BISD administration building for forwarding to the State of Texas’ contractor for analysis. Steward, a teacher at CMMHS, is alleged to have performed a large portion of the actual test changing and on more than one occasion, would provide teachers with a stack of tests and an answer key. Lambert is charged with four counts of fraud upon programs receiving federal funds and if convicted, faces up to 10 years in federal prison on each count. Lambert and Steward are both charged with conspiracy and if convicted, each face up to five years in federal prison. This case was prosecuted as part of the Joint Task Force established in March 2014 between the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Texas and the Jefferson County District Attorney’s Office to investigate and prosecute major crimes—more specifically, violent crime and crimes related to the abuse of public trust in Jefferson County, Texas. If you have any information related to this matter, please call the Federal Bureau of Investigation at 409-832-8571. This investigation was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of Education Office of Inspector General, the Texas Education Agency, the Jefferson County District Attorney’s Office and the Beaumont Police Department. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Christopher T. Tortorice and Joseph R. Batte. A grand jury indictment is not evidence of guilt and all defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
corruption United States Attorney Deirdre M. Daly and representatives from five federal law enforcement agencies today announced the formation of the Connecticut Public Corruption Task Force to investigate corrupt public officials, the misuse of public funds and related criminal activity. The Connecticut Public Corruption Task Force includes representatives from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, United States Postal Inspection Service, Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation Division, and the Inspector General’s Offices of the United States Department of Health and Human Services and the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development. “For the first time in Connecticut, we have brought together in a single investigative unit, agents and inspectors from the federal agencies that have primary responsibility for investigating public corruption,” said U.S. Attorney Daly. “Although each of these agencies has a history of working together, bringing some of the best agents in the state into one unit with a singular purpose of investigating all manner of corruption is an optimal way to address the complex and varied threats posed by corrupt activity.” U.S. Attorney Daly explained that the Task Force is focused on rooting out not only corrupt elected officials, but also federal, state and municipal employees who use their position for personal gain at the expense of the public good. The Task Force also will investigate corruption that threatens public resources, the electoral process, and fair economic opportunities for citizens and businesses. In addition, the Task Force is charged with uncovering corruption within both public and private institutions that receive and misuse taxpayer dollars. Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher M. Mattei, who is Chief of the U.S. Attorney’s Office’s Financial Fraud and Public Corruption Unit, is coordinating the Task Force. The FBI has committed resources to support all Task Force investigations and serves as the lead investigative agency. “The New Haven Division of the FBI is joining forces with our federal agency partners to combat public corruption throughout the State of Connecticut,” said FBI Special Agent in Charge Patricia M. Ferrick. “With the assistance and cooperation of these partners, the Connecticut Public Corruption Task force is well positioned to successfully root out and put an end to public corruption within our area. Public servants are entrusted by all of us to act in the best interests of the public they serve. It is important for the United States to bring to justice those who betray that trust. Public corruption at all levels of local, state, and federal government must not be tolerated, and this task force will leverage the best assets of the task force partner agencies to address the threat posed by corrupt public officials.” The Task Force has been at work for several months and has already made significant gains in several investigations, including the recent arrest of the former Finance Director of Plymouth who is alleged to have embezzled more than $800,000 from the town. “The Postal Inspection Service has enjoyed a close relationship with the Connecticut U.S. Attorney’s Office through the years working intricate and complex fraud cases that involve the illicit use of the U.S Mails,” said Inspector in Charge Shelly A. Binkowski of the U.S. Postal Inspection Service. “The U.S. Postal Inspection Service welcomes the formation of the Connecticut Public Corruption Task Force, a partnership that presents a tremendous opportunity for various agencies to pool resources and expertise to ensure public officials are held accountable.” “Investigating public corruption remains one of IRS Criminal Investigation’s highest priorities,” said William Offord, Special Agent in Charge, Internal Revenue Service. “Public trust is broken when elected or appointed officials commit crimes—most often triggered by greed and resulting in unlawful personal financial gain. IRS agents contribute their financial investigative expertise to this formidable investigative team.” “As part of the Public Corruption Task Force, HHS OIG will ensure that the department’s dollars are not misused though public corruption and are instead used for their intended purpose of ensuring that the most vulnerable members of our society—including the elderly, poor and children—receive services funded at least in part by taxpayers,” said Phillip Coyne, Special Agent in Charge of the Boston Regional Office of the Health and Human Services Office of the Inspector General. “Working with our federal, state and local law enforcement partners, we will continue to vigorously bring those who steal from these programs to justice.” “The core mission of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) includes creating strong, sustainable communities and quality affordable homes for all,” said Christina Scaringi, Special Agent in Charge of the Northeast Region of HUD’s Office of Inspector General. “To carry out its mission, HUD depends on the services of housing authority staff; owners and management agents of HUD-assisted multifamily developments; state, local, and municipal governments that receive HUD funding in the form of community development grants; and nonprofit organizations that administer a variety of programs including housing the homeless. HUD also oversees the administration of over $150 million awarded to the State of Connecticut for Hurricane Irene and Sandy disaster relief purposes. HUD OIG is dedicated to aggressively pursuing those who choose to engage in corrupt behavior, and we are proud to be a part of this all-important task force.” U.S. Attorney Daly encouraged citizens to report corrupt activity by calling 1-800-CALL-FBI (1-800-225-5324). “Connecticut’s unfortunate recent history with corruption is well known, but so is this Office’s history of combating corrupt activity,” said U.S. Attorney Daly. “Our efforts have been aided by a dogged media and courageous, conscientious citizens, business owners and public officials who have provided information about corrupt activity in their midst. We call on public servants, the vast majority of whom are honest brokers, to not look the other way when they see indications of corruption. We cannot overstate the importance of citizen participation in our fight against corruption, and we urge all citizens to assist us in this effort.”
corruption WASHINGTON—A former sergeant from the Police of Puerto Rico (POPR) was sentenced today to serve 101 months in prison for his involvement in a July 2012 home invasion robbery in Bayamon, Puerto Rico. A second former POPR officer was also sentenced today to serve 24 months in prison for lying to federal agents about his role in the same robbery and for his participation in a second, unrelated robbery. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodríguez-Vélez of the District of Puerto Rico made the announcement. Jorge Fernandez-Aviles, 49, of Carolina, Puerto Rico, pleaded guilty on Oct. 7, 2014, to robbery and firearms charges, and was sentenced to 101 months in prison today. According to admissions made in connection with his guilty plea, on July 14, 2012, Sergeant Fernandez and other POPR officers, armed with their POPR weapons, robbed a house in Bayamon. They drove to the robbery in a marked patrol car loaned to them by a POPR officer. Upon entering the house, the officers identified themselves as police, falsely claimed they were executing a search warrant, and searched and detained the individuals who were present. They then stole money and cocaine. Fernandez-Aviles later received payment from the proceeds of the sale of the stolen cocaine for his participation in the robbery. Former POPR Officer Alexander Mir-Hernandez, 40, of Carolina, Puerto Rico pleaded guilty on Oct. 3, 2014, to making false statements to federal agents and to a separate civil rights crime in connection with a December 2013 robbery, and was sentenced to serve 24 months in prison today. According to admissions made in connection with his guilty plea, when he was interviewed by FBI agents in June 2014, Mir made several false statements and falsely denied providing the patrol car that was used to commit the July 2012 robbery. Mir also admitted to stealing thousands of dollars in drug trafficking proceeds from a money courier at Luis Munoz Marin International Airport in December 2013 while he was on duty as a POPR officer. Both defendants were sentenced by U.S. District Judge José Antonio Fusté of the District of Puerto Rico. The remaining four defendants are scheduled to be sentenced in February and March 2015. This case was investigated by the FBI’s San Juan Division. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Heidi Boutros Gesch and Brian K. Kidd of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Mariana Bauzá of the District of Puerto Rico.
corruption SAN DIEGO—Alva Benavidez pleaded guilty today in federal court to conspiracy to accept bribes stemming from her employment at the California Driver Safety Office at the Department of Motor Vehicles. Appearing before U.S. Magistrate Judge Karen S. Crawford, Benavidez admitted that she accepted more than $5,000 in cash and gifts from attorneys and their law firms in exchange for helping their clients obtain positive results in DMV hearings and unauthorized temporary licenses. According to court records, Benavidez was an employee of the DMV since August 2000, where she worked as a Driver Safety Officer (“DSO”). As a DSO, Benavidez’s duties included presiding over hearings to determine whether a person charged with Driving Under the Influence (“DUI”) should have their license suspended. As an employee of the DSO, Benavidez had access to files, records and information of the DMV, including temporary licenses. In her plea agreement, Benavidez admitted that between 2005 and August 2014, she entered into an agreement with six different attorneys and six of their staff or representatives (collectively “co-conspirators”) to aid the attorneys in obtaining favorable treatment for clients who were charged with DUIs. In exchange for the favorable treatment for the clients of the co-conspirators, Benavidez accepted goods and services of value, including cash, meals, and luxury items such as designer purses, from the co-conspirators. Some of the activity Benavidez admitted to in her plea agreement included stealing arrest packets from the DSO before the information about a DUI arrest could be entered into the DSO database, setting aside driver license suspensions, and providing unauthorized temporary driver licenses for people who had been arrested for DUIs. In exchange for her participation in the conspiracy, Defendant accepted gifts and bribes worth over $5,000 total, including cash, gift certificates, sunglasses, purses and other items of value. Benavidez retired from the DMV in December 2014 after search warrants were executed at her home and office. She has been released on bond pending sentencing. The guilty plea is not final until it has been accepted by the district court. Benavidez is scheduled to be sentenced on April 20, 2015 at 9 a.m. before U.S. District Judge Cynthia A. Bashant. Anyone with information about corruption at the DMV is asked to contact the Federal Bureau of Investigation at 1-877-NO-BRIBE (662-7423), or the DMV’s Investigations Branch-Office of Internal Affairs at (951) 653-5357. DEFENDANT Name: Alva Garrido Benavidez Age: 51 Hometown: San Diego, CA Case Number 15CR0233-BAS SUMMARY OF CHARGES Conspiracy to Accept Bribes—Title 18, U.S.C., Section 371 Maximum penalty: 20 years’ imprisonment and $250,000 fine AGENCY Federal Bureau of Investigation Department of Motor Vehicles, Investigations Division, Special Operations Command, Office of Internal Affairs
corruption WASHINGTON—An Army National Guard official pleaded guilty today for accepting a $30,000 bribe in exchange for steering a $3.6 million contract to a retired sergeant major of the Minnesota Army National Guard and his consulting company. Today’s guilty plea is the eighth in connection with an investigation into corruption within the National Guard Bureau related to the awarding of millions of dollars of Army National Guard marketing, retention and recruitment contracts. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Dana J. Boente of the Eastern District of Virginia, U.S. Attorney Loretta E. Lynch of the Eastern District of New York, Assistant Director in Charge Andrew McCabe of the FBI’s Washington Field Office, Special Agent in Charge Robert E. Craig Jr. of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS) Mid-Atlantic Field Office and Director Frank Robey of the U.S. Army Criminal Investigative Command’s Major Procurement Fraud Unit (Army-CID) made the announcement. Jason Rappoccio, 39, of Hampton, South Carolina, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Liam O’Grady of the Eastern District of Virginia to one count of conspiracy to commit bribery and one count of bribery. Rappoccio was indicted on Sept. 25, 2014, and will be sentenced on May 22, 2015. According to plea documents, Rappoccio, who was an active duty sergeant first class in the Army National Guard, admitted to accepting a $30,000 bribe from Timothy Bebus, a retired sergeant major of the Minnesota Army National Guard and owner of Mil-Team Consulting and Solutions LLC (Mil-Team). In exchange, Rappoccio agreed to recommend the award of a $3.6 million contract to Mil-Team and to steer the contract to a Small Business Administration (SBA) 8(a) certified company, chosen by Bebus, that would sub-contract the work to Mil-Team. Rappoccio admitted that he received the $30,000 bribe in installments to conceal the payment. Bebus gave $6,000 in cash directly to Rappoccio at a meeting in Arlington, Virginia. The remaining $24,000 was paid in a cashier’s check in the name of Rappoccio’s wife. Rappoccio also admitted that days after receiving the $30,000 bribe, he solicited and received airline tickets for two of his family members from Bebus. Three months later, Rappoccio also received NFL tickets worth $1,328 from another co-conspirator. At the time that he accepted these additional benefits, Rappoccio agreed to steer an additional $4 million contract to Bebus and his company. The case is being investigated by the FBI’s Washington Field Office, with assistance from DCIS’s Mid-Atlantic Field Office and Army-CID’s Expeditionary Fraud Resident Agency’s Major Procurement Fraud Unit. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Alison L. Anderson of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section, Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Fahey of the Eastern District of Virginia and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Marisa Seifan and Martin Coffey of the Eastern District of New York.
corruption Preet Bharara, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, announced that attorney ALBERT BALDEO, a former Queens District Leader, was sentenced today in federal court to 18 months in prison for tampering with witnesses during the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s (“FBI”) investigation of alleged campaign fraud by BALDEO. Sentence was imposed by U.S. District Judge Paul A. Crotty. BALDEO was convicted of six counts of obstruction of justice and one count of conspiracy to obstruct justice in Manhattan federal court on August 11, 2014, after a two-week trial. U.S. Attorney Bharara stated: “Albert Baldeo tried through intimidation and harassment to obstruct the government’s investigation of his alleged fraudulent campaign practices. The obstruction of justice by a political official has no place in our politics, but it shows how officials who see fit to hold themselves above the rules will inevitably see fit to hold themselves above the law, and finish not fit to hold office. This has been all too common in New York City and New York State. Today’s sentence is a fitting punishment for Baldeo’s crimes, and a reminder that this Office and its law enforcement partners will continue to vigorously investigate and prosecute political corruption.” According to the Complaint, Indictment, and Superseding Indictment and evidence presented at trial and during the sentencing proceeding: In the fall of 2010, BALDEO, then a Queens District Leader of a political party and an attorney, participated in a scheme to defraud New York City that involved the funneling of multiple illegal campaign contributions to his ultimately unsuccessful campaign for City Council. On various occasions, BALDEO, and in at least one instance one of BALDEO’s employees, provided money orders or cash to individuals to contribute to the campaign in their own names, even though BALDEO supplied the funds and these individuals did not contribute any of their own money or reimburse him for these donations. As part of this scheme, BALDEO gave each such donor, commonly referred to as a “straw donor,” a campaign contribution card in which he or she wrote his or her name, address, employment information, and the amount of money purportedly donated to the BALDEO campaign. BALDEO instructed the straw donors to sign the contribution cards falsely affirming that the contribution was being made from their personal funds and was not being reimbursed in any manner. The New York City Campaign Finance Board (“CFB”) relied upon the information contained in these fraudulent contribution forms, among other things, in order to determine whether to release public matching campaign funds to BALDEO’s 2010 campaign. Moreover, as part of this scheme, BALDEO instructed several of these straw donors to sign affidavits, at least one of which was actually provided to the CFB in connection with BALDEO’s efforts to obtain matching funds, and which also falsely asserted that these straw donors’ contributions were made using their own funds. After learning of the FBI’s investigation of this matter, BALDEO obstructed the investigation by repeatedly instructing certain straw donors to provide false information to, or not cooperate with, the FBI agents who were investigating contributions to his campaign. Moreover, in response to BALDEO learning that one straw donor was going to refuse to lie as instructed by BALDEO: (1) a threatening letter was faxed from BALDEO’s office to the office of this straw donor’s attorney; (2) a co-conspirator of BALDEO not charged in this matter made false allegations to the New York City Administration for Children’s Services that this straw donor was abusing his grandchild; and (3) BALDEO and the same co-conspirator made at least one complaint each to the New York City Department of Buildings about properties owned by this straw donor or his wife. * * * BALDEO, 54, of Richmond Hill, New York, was convicted after trial of one count of conspiracy to obstruct justice, and six counts of obstruction of justice, each relating to a separate instance of witness tampering. He was found not guilty of three fraud-related counts. In addition to his prison term, BALDEO was sentenced to two years of supervised release, including three months on home confinement. He was also ordered to pay a $15,000 fine. Mr. Bharara praised the investigative work of the FBI and expressed his appreciation for the assistance of the New York City Campaign Finance Board, the New York City Administration for Children’s Services, and the New York City Department of Buildings in the investigation and prosecution of this matter. This case is being prosecuted by the Office’s Public Corruption Unit. Assistant United States Attorneys Daniel C. Richenthal and Martin S. Bell are in charge of the prosecution. Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption GAINESVILLE, GA—David M. Treadwell, a Hall County Deputy Sheriff, has been arraigned on federal charges of accepting bribes and conspiring to possess with intent to distribute marijuana. Treadwell was indicted by a federal grand jury on January 28, 2015. “When a police officer becomes the exception and betrays his badge to protect criminals and promote crime, he undermines the dedication and sacrifices of his fellow officers that allow our citizens to trust and respect law enforcement,” said Acting United States Attorney John A. Horn. “This case unfortunately follows too closely on the heels of other instances of police corruption in this district, but we are committed to aggressively investigating and prosecuting these cases to ensure that people have faith and confidence in our police.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated: “Allegations of public corruption at all levels is a priority concern to us at the FBI, but allegations involving a law enforcement officer offer additional challenges and concerns. The FBI, upon receiving such allegations in this case, worked aggressively with its law enforcement partners to quickly investigate those allegations and present that investigation to federal prosecutors.” “When you have a seasoned deputy sheriff who makes the conscious choice to violate his oath of office and seek illegal financial gain it must be dealt with expeditiously,” said Hall County Sheriff Gerald Couch. “I will not tolerate this kind of criminal action and I am thankful for the duty-bound officers who brought these heinous activities to the forefront.” According to Acting United States Attorney Horn, the charges, and other information presented in court: Treadwell was employed as a deputy sheriff with the Hall County Sheriff’s Office. On five occasions in late 2014, Treadwell accepted $200 or $300 from a person he believed was a drug dealer. In exchange for the money Treadwell agreed to alert the drug dealer if Treadwell learned that the drug dealer was under investigation in Hall County. David M. Treadwell, 33, of Gainesville, Ga., was arraigned before United States Magistrate Judge J. Clay Fuller. Members of the public are reminded that the indictment only contains charges. The defendant is presumed innocent of the charges and it will be the government’s burden to prove the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt at trial. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation with assistance from the North Georgia Major Offenders Task Force that includes members of the Hall County Sheriff’s Office which assisted in the investigation. Assistant United States Attorney William L. McKinnon, Jr. is prosecuting the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Presse-mails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the home page for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Gainesville Division is http://www.justice.gov/usao/gan/.
corruption WASHINGTON—Four additional former Puerto Rico police officers have been sentenced for using their law enforcement affiliation and equipment to commit robbery and extortion, and to sell illegal narcotics and manipulate court records. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodríguez-Vélez of the District of Puerto Rico and Special Agent in Charge Carlos Cases of the FBI’s San Juan Division made the announcement. Jose Sanchez-Santiago, Miguel Perez-Rivera and Carlos Laureano-Cruz were each sentenced to 63 months in prison. Luis Suarez-Sanchez was sentenced to 87 months in prison. All four defendants were former officers from the Police of Puerto Rico, and all four pleaded guilty in January 2014 to conspiracy to violate RICO. The officers admitted to being members of a criminal organization that sought to enrich its members through a pattern of illegal conduct. Over the course of the conspiracy, the officers worked together to conduct traffic stops and enter homes or buildings used by suspected criminals to steal money, property and narcotics. The officers also planted evidence to make false arrests, and then extorted money in exchange for their victims’ release from custody. In exchange for bribe payments, the officers gave false testimony, manipulated court records and failed to appear in court when required so that cases would be dismissed. Additionally, the officers sold and distributed wholesale quantities of narcotics. The officers frequently shared the proceeds they illegally obtained and used their power, authority and official positions as police officers to promote and protect their illegal activity. Among other things, the officers used their police firearms, badges, patrol cars, tools, uniforms and other equipment to commit the crimes, and concealed their illegal activity with fraudulently obtained court documents and falsified police paperwork to make it appear that they were engaged in legitimate police work. The other 12 defendants charged in this case were sentenced in December 2014. All defendants were sentenced by Senior U.S. District Judge Daniel R. Dominguez of the District of Puerto Rico. The case was investigated by the FBI’s San Juan Division and prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Brian K. Kidd, Emily Rae Woods and Menaka Kalaskar of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Mariana E. Bauzá of the District of Puerto Rico.
corruption Two former contractors with the Detroit Public Library were sentenced late yesterday afternoon on charges of bribery of a public official, United States Attorney Barbara L. McQuade announced. Joining McQuade in the announcement were Paul M. Abbate, Special Agent in Charge of the Detroit Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and Jarod Koopman, Acting Special Agent in Charge of the Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation. James Henley, 44, of Detroit, and Ricardo Hearn, 32, of Royal Oak, were sentenced to 27 months and 28 months, respectively, by United States District Judge George Caram Steeh. Each man also was ordered to pay $750,000 in restitution to the Detroit Public Library for losses suffered by the library as a result of the crimes. According to court records, Henley and Hearn paid former Detroit Public Library Chief Administrative Officer Timothy Cromer a total of $1.4 million in kickbacks in return for contracts for information technology services with the Detroit Public Library during the period 2007 to 2010. After being confronted by federal law enforcement officials, Henley and Hearn both cooperated in the prosecution of Cromer. On September 16, 2014, Cromer was sentenced to 10 years in prison for his role in the bribery conspiracy, and ordered to pay $3,913,890.42 in restitution to the library. Henley owned a company called Core Consulting & Professional Services. Cromer approved a proposal submitted by Core Consulting to provide information technology work, and approved various extensions and change orders to the contract. Ultimately, the Library paid Core Consulting almost $2 million under the contract, and Henley secretly paid kickbacks to Cromer totaling over $650,000 during the period 2007 to 2008. Henley also pleaded guilty to failing to file tax returns for the year 2007. Hearn, who owned Cubemation LLC, paid Cromer kickbacks totaling about $800,000 in exchange for Cromer approving no-bid professional services contracts for Hearn’s company to perform information technology services for the library from 2008 until 2010. Cubemation received about $3.2 million in payments from the Detroit Public Library “This case demonstrates that not just bribe takers, but bribe payers will be held accountable in appropriate cases. Everyone who corrupts the system should be brought to justice,” said United States Attorney McQuade. “All those involved in the misappropriation of government funds for their own selfish purposes violate federal law and betray the trust of the citizens they purport to serve,” stated Paul M. Abbate, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI Detroit Field Office. “The FBI, and its local, state and federal law enforcement partners, remain vigilant in the fight against public corruption, and committed to bringing to justice those who abuse the public’s trust.” “It’s disappointing when the public trust is abandoned by the actions of a few,” said IRS Acting Special Agent in Charge Jarod Koopman. “IRS-Criminal Investigation will continue to identify and help prosecute those that attempt to deceive the public, abuse the system and use their position for their own personal gain. These sentences will hopefully send a message to others that not only will they be held to the highest standard, but they will be punished equally.” The case was investigated by agents of the FBI and IRS-Criminal Investigation. The case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Mark Chutkow and Julie Beck.
corruption FRANKFORT, KY—Timothy Alexander Conley, the former Morgan County Judge-Executive, was sentenced today to 87 months in federal prison for soliciting and accepting over a hundred thousand dollars in illegal kickbacks from a bridge contractor. U.S. District Judge Gregory Van Tatenhove sentenced Conley for honest services mail fraud and ordered him to pay $130,000 in restitution. Judge Van Tatehnove ordered that Conley pay $104,000 to the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet and $26,000 to Morgan County. Under federal law, Conley will have to serve at least 85 percent of his prison sentence. “Mr. Conley’s reprehensible scheme betrayed the trust placed in him by the people of Morgan County,” said Kerry B. Harvey, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky. “He transformed his high public office into a criminal enterprise designed to line his pockets, at the expense of the citizens who elected him. The sentence imposed is an appropriate punishment for a man who so thoroughly abused the public trust, at a time when his community most needed honest leadership. Our office and our law enforcement partners will continue to use every tool available to fight public corruption in our district.” Conley admitted at his guilty plea in August 2014 that, between early 2009 through August 2013, he rigged the county’s competitive bidding process to ensure that contracts for certain Morgan County bridges were awarded to PBTHNOJJ Construction, a Salyersville, Ky., bridge contractor owned by Kenneth and Ruth Gambill. Conley admitted that, as part of that scheme, he directed Kenneth Gambill to deliver kickbacks to him from the proceeds of PBTHNOJJ Construction’s bridge contracts. For example, in 2013, Conley secretly altered bid documents for three bridges to ensure that PBTHNOJJ Construction would receive the contract to build each bridge. Conley solicited $15,000 per bridge and accepted $45,000 in cash from Kenneth Gambill for the three bridges. According to the plea agreement, these kickbacks were part of a scheme to defraud the citizens of Morgan County of their right to Conley’s honest services. Kenneth and Ruth Gambill have each pleaded guilty and have been sentenced for conspiring to launder the proceeds of Conley’s kickback scheme. Kerry B. Harvey, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky; Howard Marshall, Special Agent in Charge, FBI; and Jack Conway, Kentucky Attorney General, jointly announced the sentence today. The investigation was conducted by the FBI and the Kentucky Attorney General’s Office. This case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew T. Boone and trial attorney Jennifer Blackwell with the Public Integrity Section of the United States Department of Justice.
corruption WASHINGTON—An elected county commissioner for Precinct 1 of the Webb County Commissioners Court in Texas was sentenced today to 76 months in prison for accepting bribes in exchange for official actions. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and Special Agent in Charge Christopher Combs of the FBI’s San Antonio Division made the announcement. U.S. District Judge Marina Garcia Marmolejo of the Southern District of Texas imposed the sentence. Kristopher Michael Montemayor, 37, of Laredo, Texas, pleaded guilty to one count of federal programs bribery on June 19, 2014. In addition to the prison sentence, he was ordered to pay a fine of $109,405.72 and to forfeit $13,721.16. In his plea agreement, Montemayor admitted that he solicited and accepted multiple bribes in exchange for promising to perform official acts. Specifically, Montemayor admitted that he accepted three separate bribe payments totaling $11,000 and over $2,700 in electronics and other merchandise, including two Apple iPads and two pairs of Dr. Dre Beats Solo HD headphones, from a businessman who, unbeknownst to Montemayor, was an undercover law enforcement agent. In exchange for the cash and the other items, Montemayor promised to take various forms of official action to promote the business interests of the undercover agent. Montemayor also admitted to accepting a 2012 Ford F-150 pick-up truck, worth approximately $37,000, in exchange for providing government jobs to the vehicle owner and his spouse. As a result of these appointments, the vehicle owner and his wife received salaries of $26,000 and $45,553 from Webb County. Montemayor admitted that the vehicle owner performed little or no work in exchange for his government salary. The case was investigated by the Laredo Resident Agency of the FBI’s San Antonio Division. The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Emily Rae Woods and Mark J. Cipolletti of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section.
corruption WASHINGTON—The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit today affirmed the convictions of a former Nevada lobbyist for making excessive campaign contributions and contributions in the name of another person, announced Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Daniel G. Bogden of the District of Nevada. “We’re pleased that today’s decision confirms that the cornerstones of our campaign finance laws—contribution limits and transparency—are not subject to creative misinterpretations of those determined to break the law,” said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. “Harvey Whittemore knew the law, he knew how to raise money the right way, he knew right from wrong, and he knew how he could violate the law and avoid detection,” said U.S. Attorney Bogden. “He made a conscious and willful choice to violate federal elections laws in order to increase his own power and influence at the expense of the voting public and the election process.” F. Harvey Whittemore, 62, of Reno, Nevada, a prominent Nevada lawyer, former lobbyist and land developer, was convicted by a jury in the District of Nevada in May 2013 of making excessive campaign contributions, making contributions in others’ names, and causing a materially false statement to be made to the Federal Election Commission (FEC). He was sentenced on Sept. 30, 2013, to two years in prison and a $100,000 fine. According to evidence presented at trial, Whittemore was aware of the strict limits on individual federal campaign contributions. In an effort to circumvent those limits, he devised a scheme to unlawfully funnel more than $130,000 of his own money through approximately 29 family members, employees and their spouses to the campaign committee for a U.S. senator. This scheme allowed Whittemore to make an individual campaign donation in excess of the federal limits. Whittemore concealed the scheme from the FEC, the senator, and the senator’s campaign committee. The case was investigated by the FBI and prosecuted by Deputy Chief Eric G. Olshan of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and First Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven W. Myhre of the District of Nevada. Appellate Chief and Assistant U.S. Attorney Elizabeth Olson White of the District of Nevada argued the appeal.
corruption GREENVILLE—United States Attorney Thomas G. Walker announced today that, STEPHEN A. LAROQUE, of Kinston, North Carolina, pleaded guilty to the theft of $150,000 from a federally-funded nonprofit organization in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 666. LAROQUE also agreed to pay $300,000.00 in full restitution to East Carolina Development Company (“ECDC”), which is a nonprofit organization based in Kinston, North Carolina. ECDC was originally created to provide loans to small rural businesses using federal funds provided to ECDC by the United States Department of Agriculture under the Rural Development Division’s Intermediary Relending Program. On April 17, 2013, a 12-Count Second Superseding Indictment was returned charging LAROQUE, among other things, with the theft of $300,000 from ECDC. According to the Indictment, LAROQUE accomplished the $300,000 theft through four disbursements made by ECDC under the guise of loans to LAROQUE’s wholly-owned company. A review of bank records established that such funds were funneled through LAROQUE’s wholly owned company and then used for his personal benefit, including his investment in an ice skating rink in Greenville and to help fund his purchase of rental property in Kinston. On June 7, 2013, after a three-week trial, a jury found LAROQUE guilty on each of the twelve counts. Later, the court granted a new trial based on an issue regarding a juror’s Internet research during deliberations. At sentencing scheduled for the court’s May 12, 2015 term in Greenville, LAROQUE faces a maximum of 10 years’ imprisonment followed by up to three years of supervised release. Investigation of this case was conducted by the Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation, the United States Department of Agriculture, Office of Inspector General-Investigations, Raleigh Office, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorneys, Dennis M. Duffy and Adam F. Hulbig prosecuted the case.
corruption U.S. Attorney Kenneth A. Polite announced that TRACIE MEDUS, age 39, of New Orleans, pled guilty yesterday to theft of government funds. According to court documents, MEDUS admitted that she defrauded the federally funded Small Rental Property Program, a Louisiana Road Home program to enable low-income families displaced by Hurricane Katrina to return to Louisiana. The program provided money for landlords to repair units to be rented at specified low rates to approved low-income tenants. Road Home required that tenants be approved for income eligibility and to reside in units prior to landlords receiving funds. MEDUS obtained preliminary approval for an award by representing to Road Home that two low-income individuals were residing in her rental property and that they were paying low, Road Home-authorized rents. To support her application, MEDUS submitted a purported lease for each tenant. The leases were false in that they indicated that MEDUS charged the authorized rents when in fact she actually charged her unwitting tenants higher, impermissible rents. Additionally, one of the leases was also false in that it listed an approved low-income tenant, when in fact a different person resided there instead. At her January 2010 award closing, MEDUS reaffirmed that the tenant of the first unit was paying the approved rent amount, knowing that in fact she had been continually overcharging him. MEDUS also reaffirmed that she was renting the second unit to the previously reported purported tenant and charging the authorized rent. In truth, she instead had been continually renting to an unreported person and charging more than the authorized rent. Based on these renewed misrepresentations, Road Home issuedMEDUS $158,700. When she accepted the award, MEDUS acknowledged that she could be legally required to repay it if she failed to abide by its conditions. Unbeknownst to Road Home, MEDUS immediately violated the conditions by continuing to overcharge her tenants and by renting to the unreported tenant. In October 2010, MEDUS submitted a purported lease to Road Home indicating that a new tenant would pay the authorized rent. Again, the lease was false, as MEDUS actually charged her new unwitting tenant a higher, impermissible rent. MEDUS, who was employed as a New Orleans Police Department police officer at the time of the crime, was suspended upon being charged and resigned prior to pleading guilty. MEDUS faces up to ten years’ incarceration and a fine of up to twice the theft amount. Sentencing is scheduled for April 30, 2015 before the Honorable Mary Ann Vial Lemmon. U.S. Attorney Polite praised the work of the Department of Housing and Urban Development—Office of Inspector General and the Federal Bureau of Investigation in investigating this matter and thanked the New Orleans Police Department’s Public Integrity Bureau and the Internal Revenue Service’s Criminal Investigation Division for their assistance. Assistant U.S. Attorney Chandra Menon is in charge of this prosecution.
corruption Preet Bharara, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, and Richard Frankel, Special Agent-in-Charge of the Criminal Division of the New York Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (“FBI”), announced today that New York State Assembly Speaker SHELDON SILVER was arrested this morning on charges that he used his official position to receive nearly $4 million in bribes and kickbacks from people and businesses in exchange for his official acts, and that SILVER masked these payments from public view by disguising the payments as income from what he claimed was a law practice primarily focused on personal injury matters. SILVER was placed under arrest at the FBI in lower Manhattan, this morning, and is scheduled to appear before U.S. Magistrate Judge Frank Maas in Manhattan federal court later today. Judge Maas also issued seizure warrants to prevent SILVER from accessing approximately $3.8 million in proceeds alleged to be traceable to the charged corruption offenses until the case is resolved. U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said: “Over his decades in office, Speaker Silver has amassed titanic political power. But, as alleged, during that same time, Silver also amassed a tremendous personal fortune—through the abuse of that political power. All told, we allege that Silver corruptly collected some $4 million in bribes and kickbacks disguised as ‘referral fees.’ Those disguised bribes and kickbacks account for approximately two-thirds of all of Silver’s outside income since 2002. “As today’s charges make clear, the show-me-the-money culture of Albany has been perpetuated and promoted at the very top of the political food chain. And as the charges also show, the greedy art of secret self-reward was practiced with particular cleverness and cynicism by the Speaker himself. Among other things, we allege that Sheldon Silver, Speaker of the New York State Assembly, was on retainer to a mammoth real estate developer at the very same time that the chamber he dominates was considering and passing legislation vitally affecting the bottom line of that developer; at the very same time that he was hearing out lobbyists paid by that developer and at the very same time that he was deliberately keeping secret from the public any information about this lucrative side-deal, in violation of the law. “Politicians are supposed to be on the people’s payroll, not on secret retainer to wealthy special interests they do favors for. These charges go to the very core of what ails Albany—a lack of transparency, lack of accountability, and lack of principle joined with an overabundance of greed, cronyism, and self-dealing.” FBI Special Agent-in-Charge Richard Frankel said: “As alleged, Silver took advantage of the political pulpit to benefit from unlawful profits. When all was said and done, he amassed nearly $4 million in illegitimate proceeds and arranged for approximately $500,000 in state funds to be used for projects that benefited his personal plans. We hold our elected representatives to the highest standards and expect them to act in the best interest of their constituents. In good faith, we trust they will do so while defending the fundamental tenets of the legal system. But as we are reminded today, those who make the laws don’t have the right to break the laws.” According to the allegations contained in the Complaint unsealed today in Manhattan federal court: For more than two decades, SHELDON SILVER has served as Speaker of the Assembly, a position that gives him significant power over the operation of New York State government. SILVER used this substantial power—including, in particular, his power over the real estate industry and his control over certain health care funding—to unlawfully enrich himself by soliciting and obtaining client referrals worth millions of dollars from people and entities in exchange for SILVER’s official acts, and attempting to disguise this money as legitimate outside income earned from his work as a private lawyer. In particular, SILVER claimed on financial disclosure forms required to be filed with New York State and in public statements that the millions of dollars he received in outside income while also serving as Speaker of the Assembly came from a Manhattan-based law firm, Weitz & Luxenberg P.C., where SILVER claimed to work “representing individual clients” in “personal injury actions.” These claims were materially false and misleading—and made to cover up unlawful payments SILVER received solely due to his power and influence as an elected legislator and the Speaker of the Assembly. The scheme provided SILVER with two different streams of unlawful income: (i) approximately $700,000 in kickbacks SILVER received by steering two real estate developers with business before the state legislature to a law firm run by a co-conspirator, and (ii) more than $3 million in asbestos client referral fees SILVER received by, among other official acts, awarding $500,000 in state grants to a university research center of a physician who referred patients made ill by asbestos to SILVER at Weitz & Luxenberg. Unlawful Income From the Real Estate Law Firm SILVER entered into a corrupt relationship with a co-conspirator (“CC-1”) who had been SILVER’s counsel in the Assembly and operated a real estate law firm (the “Real Estate Law Firm”) that specialized in making applications to the City of New York to reduce taxes assessed on properties. Beginning in at least 2000, SILVER approached two prominent developers of properties in Manhattan, one personally and one in part through a lobbyist, and asked the developers to hire the Real Estate Law Firm. The developers—both of whom lobbied SILVER on real estate issues because their profits depended significantly on state legislation favorable to their business– agreed to use the Real Estate Law Firm as SILVER had requested. Over the years, these developers paid millions of dollars in legal fees to the Real Estate Law Firm. SILVER received a cut from the legal fees amounting to nearly $700,000. SILVER had no public affiliation with the Real Estate Law Firm and performed no legal work at all to earn those fees, which were simply payments for SILVER having arranged the business through his official power and influence. While continuing to receive the fees and in furtherance of the scheme, SILVER took official action beneficial to the developers. For example, while SILVER was publicly associated with advocating for tenants, a proposal made by the one of the developers who sent work to the Real Estate Law Firm was in substantial part enacted in real estate legislation in 2011 with SILVER’s support. Unlawful Income From Asbestos Client Referrals SILVER also entered into a corrupt arrangement with a leading physician who specialized in the treatment of asbestos-related diseases (“Doctor-1”) through which SILVER issued state grants and otherwise used his official position to provide favors to Doctor-1 so that Doctor-1 would refer and continue to refer his patients to SILVER at Weitz & Luxenberg, a firm with which SILVER was affiliated as counsel. Specifically, SILVER arranged for the State of New York to fund two state grants—each for $250,000, and paid out of a secret and unitemized pool of funds controlled entirely by SILVER—for a research center Doctor-1 had established. SILVER used his official position to provide Doctor-1 with other benefits as well, including helping to direct $25,000 in state funds to a not-for-profit organization for which one of Doctor-1’s family members served on the board, and asking the CEO of a second not-for-profit to hire a second family member of Doctor-1. From 2002 to the present, SILVER received more than $3 million from legal fees Weitz & Luxenberg received from patients Doctor-1 had referred to SILVER at the firm while SILVER was taking official actions to benefit Doctor-1. SILVER did no legal work whatsoever on these asbestos cases, his sole role having been to use his official position and access to state funds to induce Doctor-1 to provide him with these lucrative referrals. Silver’s Efforts to Cover Up the Scheme SILVER took various efforts to disguise his unlawful outside income and prevent the detection of the scheme. SILVER listed on his official public disclosure forms that his outside income consisted of “limited practice of law in the principal subject area of personal injury claims on behalf of individual clients,” which was false and misleading. Beginning in 2010, SILVER’s disclosures changed to state that the source of his legal income was a “Law Practice” that “includ[ed]” being of counsel to Weitz & Luxenberg. SILVER never disclosed his relationship with the Real Estate Law Firm or any work beyond what he claimed was a “personal injury” practice. SILVER also repeatedly made false statements about his outside income in his public statements, including the following: SILVER claimed he performed legal work consisting of spending several hours each week evaluating legal matters brought to him by potential clients and then referring cases that appeared to have merit to lawyers at Weitz & Luxenberg. In fact, SILVER did no such work on the asbestos cases and obtained those referrals to Weitz & Luxenberg based on his corrupt arrangement with Doctor-1. SILVER claimed his law practice involved the representation of “plain, ordinary simple people.” In fact, SILVER represented some of the largest real estate developers in the State of New York, whose interests are in many ways dependent on state legislation. SILVER claimed through his spokesperson that SILVER found clients by virtue of his having been a “lawyer for more than 40 years,” in a manner that was “not unlike any other attorney in this state, anywhere.” In fact, SILVER found his lucrative asbestos and real estate developer clients solely by virtue of his official position. SILVER recently stated through his spokesperson that “[n]one of his clients have any business before the state.” In fact, SILVER’s outside income included millions of dollars of fees obtained through real estate developers with significant business before the state and a prominent physician to whose benefit SILVER provided state funding and other benefits related to SILVER’s official position. Finally, SILVER thwarted the Moreland Commission to Investigate Public Corruption so that it would not learn of his illegal outside income, first by filing legal motions on behalf of the Assembly and taking other action to block the Moreland Commission’s investigation into legislative outside income and then by negotiating with the Governor of New York to prematurely terminate the Moreland Commission. * * * SILVER, 70, of New York, New York, is charged with two counts of honest services fraud, one count of conspiracy to commit honest services fraud, one count of extortion under color of official right, and one count of conspiracy to commit extortion under color of official right. Each of these five counts carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison. The maximum potential sentences in this case are prescribed by Congress and are provided here for informational purposes only, as any sentencing of the defendant will be determined by a judge. U.S. Attorney Bharara praised the work of the Criminal Investigators of the United States Attorney’s Office and the FBI, who jointly conducted this investigation. Mr. Bharara also noted that the investigation is continuing. This case is being prosecuted by the Office’s Public Corruption Unit. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Howard S. Master, Carrie H. Cohen, Andrew D. Goldstein, and James McDonald are in charge of the prosecution. The charges contained in the Complaint are merely accusations, and the defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption The United States Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania announced today that John Yuknavich, age 51, former Chief of the Wilkes-Barre Township Volunteer Fire Department, was sentenced by U.S. District Court Judge Edwin M. Kosik to six months in federal prison for stealing $45,000 from the fire department and Wilkes-Barre Township in the course of his duties as Chief of that fire department between 2008 and 2011. Yuknavich was further ordered to serve six months of home confinement upon release from incarceration, followed by three years of supervised release. According to United States Attorney Peter Smith, Yuknavich was responsible for ensuring the deposit of monthly funds received from Wilkes-Barre Township, as well as all other funds received either through charitable contributions or annual state aid received from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Yuknavich allegedly deposited only part of the monthly $3500 check received from Wilkes-Barre Township intended to pay fire department bills, and took the remainder of the check in cash, most of which he used for his personal benefit. Federal law prohibits theft or intentional misapplication of $5,000 or more from local government programs that receive more than $10,000 in federal funds annually. The Government also filed an additional sentencing agreement wherein Yuknavich agreed to resign completely from the Wilkes-Barre Township fire department and the Wilkes-Barre Township Fire Hall in all capacities, effective immediately. He was also ordered to pay $45,000 in restitution. The prosecution is the result of a joint investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Luzerne County District Attorney’s Office, and the Pennsylvania State Police with the assistance of the Pennsylvania Department of the Auditor General. Prosecution is assigned to Assistant United States Attorney Michelle Olshefski.
corruption For nearly two decades, Sheldon Silver has served as speaker of the New York State Assembly, a position that has afforded him significant power over the workings of state government. As alleged, Silver took advantage of this political pulpit to benefit from unlawful profits. When all was said and done, Silver amassed nearly $4 million in illegitimate proceeds. He also arranged for approximately $500,000 in state funds to be used for projects that benefited his personal plans. The nature of his earnings went virtually undetected—until today. Silver’s wallet was enriched through his association with a physician to whom he issued state grants and other favors made possible through his official position. In exchange for favors, the physician referred patients with asbestos-related diseases to Silver at Weitz & Luxenberg, a law firm where he was affiliated as counsel. In the end, Silver received over $3 million in proceeds from the patients referred to him, and more than $500,000 in state money was allocated for projects that directly benefited the doctor and his family. But the special treatment didn’t stop there. Silver also received more than $700,000 in kickbacks after leading two real estate developers with business before the state to a law firm run by a co-conspirator with whom he had entered into a corrupt relationship. He later supported a proposal made by one of the developers, which was, in substantial part, enacted into legislation in 2011. We hold our elected representatives to the highest standards and expect them to act in the best interest of their constituents. In good faith, we trust they will do so while defending the fundamental tenets of the legal system. But as we are reminded today, those who make the laws don’t have the right to break the laws. Thanks, as always, to our partners in this and so many investigations, U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara; Assistant U.S. Attorney and Chief of the Public Corruption Unit Arlo Devlin-Brown; and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Carrie Cohen, Howard Master, Andrew Goldstein, and James McDonald. I would also like to thank and congratulate the investigative team that worked together to address corruption in New York: I extend my sincere congratulations to Robert Ryan and John Barry, criminal investigators from the Southern District, FBI Special Agents Richard Wilfling, Paul Takla, and Elizabeth Bracco, as well as Supervisory Special Agent James Barnacle, for their work on this important investigation. - Related press release Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption NEWNAN, GA—Former Spalding County Fire Battalion Chief Dwayne Tyrone Coggins and former Firefighter Michael Owens have been sentenced for tipping off drug dealers to police activity in the Griffin, Ga., area. Both were convicted in October 2014, after a jury trial. “The police thought there was no safer place to gather than a fire station. Instead, Coggins and Owens reported what they saw and heard to drug dealers operating in the area without ever considering the safety of the officers who trusted them with sensitive information,” said Acting United States Attorney John A. Horn. “The Court’s sentences in this case demonstrate that there are real consequences that come from tipping off criminals to police activity.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated: “The sentencing of these two former Spalding County firefighters concludes an unfortunate but very necessary investigation and prosecution. Those who serve within the public safety community should be able to depend on each other, to include their own safety and security as they carry out their duties, and that was not the case with former Spalding County Fire Battallion Chief Coggins and former firefighter Owens. The FBI will continue to provide significant resources toward identifying, investigating, and presenting for prosecution those individuals who betray their badges and their oaths of office.” According to Acting United States Attorney Horn, the charges, and other information presented in court: Coggins was employed by the Spalding County Ga., Fire Department since 1990 and, most recently, served as a Battalion Chief. Owens had been employed by the Spalding County Ga., Fire Department as a firefighter for approximately four years. Police regularly gathered at the Spalding County Fire Department before scheduled police activity such as serving arrest warrants. In April and May 2014, Coggins and Owens warned drug dealers about law enforcement activity in the area before it occurred because they had been told by the police about the investigation or had seen officers gathering near the fire station. Police were unaware that Coggins and Owens were tipping off drug traffickers until they heard the drug dealers talking about the tips on a wiretapped telephone. During a series of wiretapped calls, the drug dealers discussed the specific information provided by the firefighters as well as how they could dispose of the drugs before the police arrived. In one recorded call, Owens himself was intercepted asking whether the drug dealer had already cleaned out the drugs before police executed a search warrant. Owens cautioned the drug dealer that he should immediately remove the drugs out of his stash house before it was too late. Coggins, 47, of Griffin, Ga., was sentenced to four years in federal prison followed by one year of supervised release, and 100 hours of community service. Owens, 37, also of Griffin, Ga., was sentenced to two years, six months in prison followed by one year of supervised release, and 100 hours of community service. Both were sentenced before United States District Court Judge Timothy Batten. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Kurt R. Erskine and Jeffrey W. Davis prosecuted the case.
corruption WASHINGTON—A current Puerto Rico Superior Court Judge was convicted yesterday by a federal jury in Puerto Rico of accepting bribes to acquit a businessman of vehicular homicide charges. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodríguez-Vélez of the District of Puerto Rico and Special Agent in Charge Carlos Cases of the FBI’s San Juan Division made the announcement. “Judicial corruption strikes at the very heart of our legal system,” said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. “Justice must be determined by the evidence and the law, not by bribe payments from those with the deepest pockets. We are committed to maintaining the public’s trust by rooting out corruption wherever we find it—whether it be a politician in a backroom or a judge on the bench.” “This conviction should serve to restore the public’s trust in the fairness of the judicial system,” said U.S. Attorney Rodríguez-Vélez. “We hope that the jury’s verdict brings some closure to the family of Félix Babilonia. I congratulate the prosecutors and the agents whose hard work and dedication brought about Acevedo-Hernández’s conviction.” “Justice is for all the people, not for a select few who use money and power to buy favorable verdicts,” said Special Agent in Charge Cases. “The San Juan Division of the FBI is committed to continue investigating corruption at all levels in Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands.” Puerto Rico Superior Court Judge Manuel Acevedo-Hernandez, 62, was convicted late yesterday following a one-week trial of conspiracy to commit federal programs bribery and receipt of a bribe by an agent of an organization receiving federal funds. Sentencing is scheduled for April 20, 2015, before Chief U.S. District Judge Aida Delgado-Colon of the District of Puerto Rico. According to evidence at trial, Acevedo-Hernandez presided over a case involving Lutgardo Acevedo-Lopez, 39, a certified public accountant in Aguadilla, Puerto Rico. On June 30, 2012, a car driven by Acevedo-Lopez collided with another car, resulting in the death of the other car’s driver. Acevedo-Lopez was charged with criminal vehicular homicide in connection with the incident. Acevedo-Hernandez, a supervisory superior court judge in the Aguadilla judicial region of Puerto Rico, acquitted Acevedo-Lopez of all charges. The evidence demonstrated that Acevedo-Lopez used an intermediary to bribe Acevedo-Hernandez by paying taxes owed by Acevedo-Hernandez, paying for the construction of a garage for Acevedo-Hernandez, and providing Acevedo-Hernandez with a motorcycle, clothing and accessories, including cufflinks and a watch. In exchange, Acevedo-Hernandez acquitted Acevedo-Lopez of all charges. Acevedo-Lopez pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit federal programs bribery and paying a bribe to an agent of an organization receiving federal funds on Aug. 14, 2014. The case was investigated by the FBI’s San Juan Division and is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Peter Mason of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Timothy Henwood and Jose Capo of the District of Puerto Rico. Citizens of Puerto Rico who have allegations of public corruption are encouraged to contact the FBI’s San Juan Division at (787) 754-6000.
corruption BUFFALO, NY—U.S. Attorney William J. Hochul, Jr. announced today that a federal grand jury has returned a 13-count indictment charging former City of Dunkirk Mayor Richard L. Frey, 83, of Dunkirk, NY, with engaging in a scheme to defraud his mayoral campaign and his supporters by stealing campaign contributions for his personal benefit. Frey is charged with 12 counts of wire fraud and one count of making a false statement to the FBI. The charges carry a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Assistant U.S. Attorney John E. Rogowski and Department of Justice Trial Attorney Edward P. Sullivan of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section, who are handling the case, state that according to the indictment, from at least January 2003 through June 2012, Frey solicited and received several large campaign contributions from a number of area businesses and businesspeople. Instead of depositing the donations into his campaign accounts, the defendant either cashed the checks for his personal use or deposited the checks into his personal bank accounts. The indictment further alleges that the defendant concealed the existence of these larger campaign contributions by not reporting or disclosing them on his campaign disclosure reports, as was required of local candidates for public office. It is further alleged that Frey provided false information to the FBI when asked about the scheme. The indictment is the culmination of an investigation by Federal Bureau of Investigation and the U.S. Housing and Urban Development Office of Inspector General. The fact that a defendant has been charged with a crime is merely an accusation and the defendant is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty.
corruption In El Paso, a federal jury convicted four Folk Nation/Gangster Disciples members, one of whom was a former juvenile probation officer, of federal sex trafficking charges announced Acting United States Attorney Richard L. Durbin, Jr., Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) Special Agent in Charge Waldemar Rodriguez and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Special Agent in Charge Douglas E. Lindquist, El Paso Division. On Friday, jurors returned guilty verdicts against gang members Deion Lockhart, age 26, Richard Gray, age 25, and Emmanual Lockhart, age 24, and Timothy McCullouch, Jr. a 29-year-old former El Paso County juvenile probation officer of one count of conspiracy to commit sex trafficking of persons. Jurors also convicted: Deion Lockhart of one count of sex trafficking by force, fraud and coercion and one count of aiding and abetting sex trafficking of children; Richard Gray, one count of sex trafficking by force, fraud and coercion, one count of sex trafficking of children and one count of transportation for prostitution; and, Timothy McCullouch, one count of sex trafficking of children. Testimony during trial revealed that between May 2012 and March 2013, the defendants were involved in the forced prostitution of juveniles and adults by the Folk Nation/Gangster Disciples street gang. The defendants used a combination of force, fraud, and coercion to compel their victims to engage in sexual activities for money in El Paso; Killeen, TX; Albuquerque, NM; Las Vegas, NV; and, in Colorado. Each defendant faces up to life in federal prison. Sentencing is scheduled for April 2015, before U.S. District Judge Philip R. Martinez. Two fellow gang members and co-defendants pleaded guilty prior to trial. In May of last year, Tai Von Lynch and Brandon Shapiro pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit sex trafficking of persons. On October 28, 2014, Lynch was sentenced to 15 years in federal prison followed by five years of supervised release and ordered to pay a $2,500 fine. Shapiro, who remains in custody, is awaiting sentencing scheduled for February. He faces an agreed sentence of five years in federal prison. In a separate, but related matter, Folk Nation/Gangster Disciples members Kiry Hakeem Nalls, age 25, and Grant Rutledge, age 25, were sentenced to federal prison for their roles in a forced prostitution scheme. In April 2014, Nalls was sentenced to ten years in federal prison followed by five years of supervised release and fined $2,500 after pleading guilty to one count of forced labor. In March 2014, Rutlege was sentenced to ten months in federal prison followed by five years of supervised release and fined $500 after pleading guilty to one count of misprision of felony. These task force investigations were conducted by the ACTeam (Anti-Trafficking Coordination Team) comprised of personnel from Homeland Security Investigations (HSI), Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), U.S. Department of Labor and the United States Attorney’s Office together with the El Paso Police Department Gang Unit and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF). “This verdict is a major victory for HSI and its law enforcement partners within the ACTeam,” said HSI Special Agent in Charge Waldemar Rodriguez. “HSI plans to employ its ample authority, resources and resolve to investigate human trafficking activity in our community, identify and rescue victims, and bring traffickers to justice.” “The FBI has a zero tolerance on Human Trafficking and all traffickers, whether gang members or government employees, and will be aggressively pursued and held accountable,” stated FBI Special Agent in Charge Douglas E. Lindquist. Assistant United States Attorneys Rifian Newaz and Robert Almonte are prosecuting these cases on behalf of the Government.
corruption BEAUMONT, TX—Nearly $900,000 of forfeited funds have been paid towards financial losses suffered by the Beaumont Independent School District (BISD), announced U.S. Attorney John M. Bales today. Devin Wayne McCraney, former Director of Finance for BISD, and Sharika Baksh Allison, former Comptroller for BISD, were sentenced on Sep. 18, 2014 for fraud and conspiracy to commit fraud upon programs receiving federal funds. McCraney and Allison surrendered to the Bureau of Prisons on Oct. 21, 2014. As part of their sentences, McCraney and Allison were ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $4,041,705.27 to BISD. On Jan. 15, 2015, the U.S. District Clerk forwarded $896,915.33 in forfeiture funds to BISD as part of that restitution. This case was prosecuted as part of the Joint Task Force established in March 2014 between the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Texas and the Jefferson County District Attorney’s Office to investigate and prosecute major crimes involving abuse of the public trust in Jefferson County, Texas. After McCraney and Allison were indicted in January 2014, more than $900,000 in assets, including cash and luxury vehicles, were seized pursuant to the Justice Department’s asset forfeiture procedures. The majority of those assets were forfeited to the federal government when McCraney was sentenced. Assets were also forfeited from Allison in the criminal case. Aside from those forfeited assets, McCraney and Allison had spent nearly all of the remaining money that they embezzled from BISD. Because McCraney and Allison did not have enough other assets to pay anything towards the $4 million restitution judgment, the U.S. Attorney requested for the Justice Department’s Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section (AFMLS) to approve application of the forfeited assets to the restitution debt so that the forfeited funds could be paid to BISD. AFMLS expedited the U.S. Attorney’s request and approved it in a matter of days. “Returning forfeited assets to the victims of financial crime is an important priority of the Justice Department’s asset forfeiture program,” said U.S. Attorney Bales. “We endeavor to seek restitution to crime victims whenever possible in our cases. Unfortunately, criminals often spend all of the money that they steal, which ultimately leaves very little else for the victims. Asset forfeiture is a key law enforcement tool because it helps to restrain a criminal’s assets and preserve them for crime victims.” “Given how these defendants spent their ill-gotten gains and had very little of value to show for it, we are fortunate that there was anything to forfeit at all,” said U.S. Attorney Bales. “Thanks to the efforts of the task force, we were able to find what assets of value they did have, seize them, forfeit them, and now have them paid to BISD.” This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the U.S. Department of Education Office of Inspector General. This case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Christopher T. Tortorice and Joseph R. Batte.
corruption TUCSON, AZ—Today, former U.S. Border Patrol Agent Raimundo Borjas, 41, of Douglas, Ariz., was sentenced to two years in prison by U.S. District Court Judge Jennifer G. Zipps, for conspiracy to commit money laundering. Judge Zipps also entered an order forfeiting $28,100 of the funds Borjas attempted to launder and entered a money judgment against Borjas for an additional $9,720, which represented Borjas’s profit from the offense. Borjas pleaded guilty on Aug. 1, 2014. On Feb. 24, 2010, Borjas opened a personal checking account at Southeastern Arizona Federal Credit Union in Douglas, Ariz. Borjas deposited into the account cash that was dirty, frayed, and had holes in it (“mutilated cash”), totaling $61,600. Borjas received the $61,600 in mutilated cash, which he believed was drug proceeds, from “Rigo.” Borjas and Rigo agreed that Borjas would deposit the mutilated cash, withdraw useable cash in the same amount, and delivered it back to Rigo. For his participation in this scheme, Borjas received 30% of the money he laundered. During this period, Borjas withdrew $32,400 of the money in useable, clean bills and returned it to Rigo, receiving $9,720 as payment. Borjas was unable to withdraw the remaining $28,100 because the United States seized those funds. The investigation is this case was conducted by the Cochise Border Corruption Task Force, which consists of agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, U.S. Department of Homeland Security Office of Inspector General, Customs and Border Protection Internal Affairs, and Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation, with assistance from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Douglas Police Department. The prosecution was handled by Mary Sue Feldmeier, Assistant U.S. Attorney, District of Arizona, Tucson.
corruption HONOLULU—United States District Judge Derrick K. Watson today sentenced Roddy Takao Tsunezumi, age 38, a former Honolulu Police Department (HPD) officer, to 33 months in prison. Tsunezumi pled guilty in July 2014 to interfering with commerce by threats in an extortion scheme aimed at a local Honolulu business. Florence T. Nakakuni, U.S. Attorney for the District of Hawaii, said that according to information produced to the court, Tsunezumi joined with codefendant Jeremy Javillo to extort $15,000 from a local Honolulu business by attempting to convince the owners that they would be kidnapped and/or robbed if they did not hire a protection business offered by Javillo. The owners of the business had reported an apparent legitimate threat they received to Tsunezuni in his role as an HPD officer. Instead of properly investigating or referring the threat through normal police channels, Tsunezumi arranged for one of the owners to meet with his associate, Javillo, who Tsunezumi told them could arrange protection for them. In order to coerce the owners to employ this protection service, a series of threatening text messages were then sent anonymously to the business owners. Javillo, who also pled guilty, is expected to be sentenced tomorrow by Judge Watson. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Ken Sorenson.
corruption PITTSBURGH—A former resident of Washington, Pa., has been sentenced in federal court to 87 months’ imprisonment, three years’ supervised release and no fine or restitution on his conviction of Hobbs Act violations, United States Attorney David J. Hickton announced today. United States District Judge Joy Flowers Conti imposed the sentence on Donald Abraham Solomon, 59, formerly of 145 Lemoyne Avenue, Apartment 6, Washington, Pa. According to information presented to the court, Solomon was the Chief of Police of East Washington Borough, Pa. He received payments from a purported drug dealer, who was an undercover FBI agent, to protect drug shipments and to purchase law enforcement restricted police equipment. Assistant United States Attorneys Robert S. Cessar and Lee J. Karl prosecuted this case on behalf of the government. U.S. Attorney Hickton commended the Federal Bureau of Investigation for the investigation leading to the successful prosecution of Solomon.
corruption BUFFALO, NY—U.S. Attorney William J. Hochul, Jr. announced today that Jorge Melendez, 44, of Buffalo, NY, who was convicted of conspiracy to manufacture more than 100 marijuana plants, was sentenced to 60 months in prison by Chief U.S. District Judge William Skretny. The defendant was also ordered to pay a money judgement totalling $300,000, and forfeit a Suburban vehicle, a Harley Davidson motorcycle, a 36 foot speed boat, and seven firearms. “For all those who take an oath to uphold the law, there is nothing more egregious than to flout that sacred promise and become a criminal,” said U.S. Attorney Hochul. “This defendant—while wearing the uniform of a police officer—served as a drug dealer for two years. The defendant’s actions have now cost him his liberty and property. They have not, however, reduced the high regard we have for those officers who continue to perform an outstanding job keeping all of us safe.” Assistant U.S. Attorney Joseph M. Tripi, who handled the case, stated that on May 31, 2012, Melendez, along with co-defendants Jason Elardo and Robert Osika, were arrested after a long term investigation into a large scale marijuana grow operation at three locations. Specifically, Melendez and Elardo maintained a marijuana grow operation at a warehouse located at 2157 South Park Ave. in Buffalo. During the course of an investigation into the cultivation and distribution of marijuana, law enforcement officers installed hidden surveillance equipment on the second floor of the South Park Ave. warehouse where a grow operation was located. A review of surveillance video showed Melendez and Elardo tending to over 100 marijuana plants. Prior to installing cameras inside the warehouse, officers monitored the outside of the building, also using surveillance cameras. Melendez was observed arriving in a Buffalo Police patrol car, while on duty, and entering and exiting the location. The defendant worked in the Buffalo Police Department’s “D” District, however the warehouse is located in the “A” District. The outside surveillance cameras also observed Elardo entering the warehouse on a daily basis to tend to the marijuana grow operation. In addition, officers obtained credit card information indicating that Elardo purchased equipment used to sustain an indoor, hydroponic marijuana grow operation. The equipment included a dehumidifier and filters. At one point during the investigation, officers observed a police badge and credentials belonging to Melendez inside the warehouse. Melendez claimed to have previously lost the badge and identification. On May 31, 2012, two additional locations were found to contain grow operations. A warehouse located at 1372 Clinton Street in Buffalo and a residence located at 76 West Woodside, both owned by Jason and third co-defendant Gale Elardo, were found to contain a marijuana grow operation. The residence also was found to contain marijuana packaged for sale and two firearms. Defendants Osika and Gale Elardo have been convicted and are awaiting sentenced. Jason Elardo is deceased. The sentencing is the culmination of an investigation on the part of Investigators of the New York State Police, under the direction of Major Michael Cerretto, the Drug Enforcement Administration, under the direction of James J. Hunt, Special Agent in Charge, New York Field Division, Special Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Buffalo Police Department under the direction of Commission Daniel Derenda.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—Michael Lowry, 59, of Philadelphia, PA, was sentenced today to 20 months in prison for lying to a grand jury in connection with a ticket fixing scheme at the former Philadelphia Traffic Court. Lowry was a sitting traffic court judge at the time. In addition to the prison term, U.S. District Court Judge Lawrence Stengel ordered one year of supervised release and ordered Lowry to perform 100 hours of community service. Lowry and co-defendants Robert Mulgrew and Thomasine Tynes were convicted at trial, on July 23, 2014, of committing perjury before a federal grand jury. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Denise Wolf and Anthony Wzorek.
corruption SAN DIEGO—Former San Ysidro School District Superintendent Manuel Paul was sentenced today to two months in custody, a $5,000 fine, one year of supervised release and 120 hours of community service for threatening to withhold the awarding of contracts unless he received political contributions. U.S. Magistrate Judge William V. Gallo said he imposed a sentence that included jail time because Paul failed the children of his district. Judge Gallo stated, “Thousands of children relied on you for sound judgment.” He later added, “Abuse of trust is a mortal sin that is difficult to excuse.” Paul was ordered to report to the federal Metropolitan Correctional Center downtown on January 27. Paul worked in the San Ysidro School District (“SYSD”) for 38 years as a teacher, principal, and superintendent, a post he held from 2007 until his resignation in 2013. According to court documents, he served several duties as superintendent, including recommending contractors for consideration and approval by the SYSD Governing Board for SYSD construction projects. In entering his plea, Paul admitted requesting that a contractor (“Contractor A”) make $3,600 in campaign contributions to three political candidates for the 2010 Board election, identified in charging documents as Candidates A, B, and C. Paul admitted that he made clear that Contractor A’s inclusion on the list of potential contractors for future District building projects was contingent on Contractor A making the payment. According to the plea agreement, shortly thereafter—and only two months before the 2010 Board election—Paul accepted $2,500 in cash from Contractor A in the parking lot of a Chula Vista restaurant. Paul admitted that he then contributed a portion of the $2,500 to the political campaigns of Candidates A, B, and C by purchasing campaign signs from a print shop in Tijuana. According to court documents, Candidates A, B, and C won the three open seats. In addition to his guilty plea, Paul has also entered into a stipulation with California’s Fair Political Practices Commission, in which he admitted to receiving a gift in excess of the annual gift limit by accepting the $2,500 from Contractor A. As part of his settlement with the FPPC, Paul has agreed to pay a $5,000 fine. United States Attorney Laura E. Duffy stressed that her office will continue to pursue vigorously any criminal activity that seeks to introduce illegal money into campaigns. “Today’s sentence is a stark reminder that illegal money in our elections—regardless of the amount—is a threat to the very fabric of our democratic form of government and will be treated as such by our office. All citizens of our district have the right to elections free from corruption.” FBI Special Agent in Charge, Eric S. Birnbaum, commented, “The obligation to deal honestly and truthfully is the responsibility of all who serve the public. Today’s sentencing holds Mr. Paul accountable for his actions.” The FBI encourages the public to report allegations of public corruption to the FBI public corruption hotline at telephone number (877) NO—BRIBE (662-7423). DEFENDANT (CASE NO. 14CR2351-WVG) Manuel Paul Age: 63 Bonita, CA SUMMARY OF CHARGE Deprivation of Benefit for Political Contribution—Title 18, U.S.C., Section 601 Maximum penalty: One year imprisonment and $100,000 fine AGENCY Federal Bureau of Investigation
corruption TRENTON, NJ—An Essex County Corrections Officer today admitted her involvement in a scheme to smuggle contraband, including cell phones, into the Essex County Correctional Facility, a federal pretrial detention facility, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Channel Lespinasse, 26, of Florham Park, New Jersey, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Mary L. Cooper to an information charging her with one count of conspiring to commit extortion under color of official right. According to documents filed in this and related cases and statements made in court: On multiple occasions between August 2013 and January 2014, Lespinasse delivered contraband to federal pretrial detainees at the Essex County Correctional Facility in exchange for cash bribes. On one occasion in November 2013, Lespinasse agreed to deliver a cell phone to an inmate in exchange for $1,000. A conspirator retrieved the cell phone and the $1,000 payment from an individual outside of the facility—actually an undercover FBI agent—and gave the phone, along with a portion of the payment, to Lespinasse, who then delivered the contraband to the inmate. The conspiracy charge to which Lespinasse pleaded guilty carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Sentencing is scheduled for May 7, 2015. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford in Newark, and investigators with the Internal Affairs Division of Essex County Correctional Facility, under the leadership of Essex County Corrections Director Al Ortiz, with the investigation leading to today’s guilty plea. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Rahul Agarwal of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division and Rob Frazer of the office’s Organized Crime/Gangs Unit in Newark.
corruption Former Police of Puerto Rico Officer Angel Torres Quinones was sentenced today to serve 46 months in prison for obstructing the civil rights investigation into the fatal beating of Jose Luis Irizarry Perez, 19, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta for the Civil Rights Division, U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodriguez-Velez for the District of Puerto Rico and Special Agent in Charge Carlos Cases of the FBI San Juan Field Office. Torres Quinones pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice for providing misleading information to the local Puerto Rico prosecutor who initially investigated the police-involved beating of Irizarry Perez. Five other former Puerto Rico police officers, who also pleaded guilty, are currently awaiting sentencing for their roles in the beating of Irizarry Perez and subsequent obstruction of the investigation. According to documents filed in connection with the guilty pleas, two former Puerto Rico police officers violated the constitutional rights of Irizarry Perez by striking him with their police batons while another former police officer physically restrained Irizarry Perez during an election evening celebration at the Las Colinas housing development in Yauco, Puerto Rico, on Nov. 5, 2008. U.S. District Court Judge Juan M. Perez Gimenez issued the sentence, which will be followed by three years of supervised release. During the three-year term, the defendant will be under federal supervision, and risks additional prison time should he violate any terms of his supervised release. “The department will continue to ensure that those who cover up civil rights violations are brought to justice,” said Acting Assistant Attorney General Gupta. “Like an officer who unnecessarily uses excessive force, a police officer who obstructs a civil rights investigation violates his oath to the people he serves.” “Today’s sentencing brings a measure of justice to the family of Jose Luis Irizarry Perez,” said U.S. Attorney Rodriguez-Vélez. “The U.S. Attorney’s Office and its law enforcement partners will hold accountable those who abuse their power and official positions at the expense of constitutionally guaranteed civil rights.” This case was investigated by the FBI’s San Juan Division and is being prosecuted by Senior Litigation Counsel Gerard Hogan and Trial Attorneys Shan Patel and Olimpia E. Michel of the Civil Rights Division and Assistant U.S. Attorney Jose A. Contreras for the District of Puerto Rico.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—Dennis Erik Fluck Von Kiel, 58, of New Tripoli, PA, pleaded guilty today to 17 counts stemming from his schemes to: defraud the IRS and the Department of Health and Human Services out of hundreds of thousands of dollars, get financial aid grants for his four eldest children, file false claims for social security disability insurance, and lie at a bankruptcy proceeding. Von Kiel is the former medical director of Lehigh County Prison. He pleaded guilty to conspiracy to defraud the United States, five counts of attempting to defeat or evade a federal tax, one count of attempting to obstruct the due administration of the internal revenue code, five counts of failure to file tax returns, one count of wire fraud and aiding and abetting wire fraud, one count of perjury in a bankruptcy proceeding, one count of financial aid fraud and aiding and abetting financial aid fraud, and two counts of mail fraud and attempted mail fraud. The plea agreement recommends a 41-month prison term. U.S. District Court Judge Jeffrey L. Schmehl will make the final determination on sentencing at a hearing scheduled for April 20, 2015. Since 2001, Von Kiel has engaged in a series of illegal schemes which were designed to help him evade creditors, including the Department of Health and Human Services to whom Von Kiel owed hundreds of thousands of dollars in outstanding medical school loans. He tried to defraud the IRS in order to avoid paying more than $200,000 in duly-owed personal income taxes. Von Kiel also lied on applications to the Department of Education for financial student aid for four of his children, which enabled them to receive more than $36,000 in federal Pell Grants for their college educations. Von Kiel tried to file a fraudulent claim for social security disability benefits by falsely claiming that he suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder. He also intentional made a false statement under oath in a bankruptcy proceeding. Von Kiel is a doctor of osteopathy whose medical practice included treating inmates at LCP from approximately March 1989 until approximately August 2013. Most of Von Kiel’s schemes involved him pretending to become a minister of a “church” called the International Academy of Lymphology (which later changed its name to the International Academy of Life and then the Christian Forum Assembly), purporting to take a “vow of poverty,” and then claiming that he had no taxable income because his earnings belonged to “church.” Von Kiel convinced his employer that he was exempt from federal tax withholdings and directed his employer to deposit his bi-weekly paychecks into bank accounts for his “church.” Once the money arrived in those accounts, co-conspirators would transfer nearly the same amount of money into Pennsylvania bank accounts controlled by Von Kiel. Von Kiel then used the money to pay for all of his family’s day-to-day living expenses and to buy some luxury items. Von Kiel has been held without bail at the Federal Detention Center since his arrest on February 28, 2014. Von Kiel also faces up to three years of supervised release, restitution to the IRS in the amount of $256,920, $262,303.11 to the Department of Health and Human Services and $36,314 to the Department of Education, forfeiture of $165,988.29, a fine of up to $2,895,000, and a $1,700 special assessment. The case was investigated by the Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigations, the FBI, and the Department of Education’s Office of Inspector General. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Mark B. Dubnoff.
corruption TRENTON, NJ—A former Jersey City police officer was sentenced today to 36 months in prison for his role in stealing more than half a million cigarettes from a trailer and extorting $20,000 from a drug courier who turned out to be an undercover FBI agent, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Mario Rodriguez, 40, of Jersey City, New Jersey, previously pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Anne E. Thompson to an information charging him with one count of cargo theft and one count of conspiracy to commit Hobbs Act extortion under color of official right. Judge Thompson imposed the sentence today in Trenton federal court. According to documents filed in this case and statements made in court: On July 3, 2013, Rodriguez and an individual working for the FBI as a confidential informant (CI) drove to a warehouse in Secaucus, New Jersey, to break into a trailer, steal cigarettes and sell the stolen goods to the CI’s associate. Law enforcement agents had previously parked the trailer at the warehouse and established surveillance of the area. After using bolt-cutters to cut the lock off of the trailer, Rodriguez and the CI loaded 50 cases containing approximately 600,000 cigarettes and six televisions from the trailer into their vehicle. As they drove the stolen items to a parking lot in Staten Island, New York, Rodriguez made several phone calls seeking buyers for the TVs. The pair met the CI’s associate – actually an undercover officer – in the parking lot to get the $5,000 payment for the cigarettes. Rodriguez kept $3,000 of the cash and three of the TVs. On July 10, 2013, Rodriguez, the CI and an undercover law enforcement agent met in New Jersey and discussed the possibility of robbing a drug courier, who was actually another undercover officer. On July 24, 2013, the group met again in Staten Island to discuss the plan. The undercover officer told Rodriguez the courier would be delivering cocaine to them that day in exchange for a $20,000 payment. Rodriguez suggested a Jersey City mall parking lot due to an absence of surveillance cameras and called his associate, Anthony Roman, 48, of Jersey City, who was not a law enforcement officer, to help him with the robbery. Roman was charged with one count of Hobbs Act extortion. Later that day, Rodriguez and Roman drove an SUV to the location where the CI and the drug courier were parked. Law enforcement agents had already established surveillance and staged the car containing $20,000 cash in a plastic bag. Rodriguez and Roman approached the car and identified themselves as law enforcement officers who were investigating the CI. They pretended to arrest the CI, threatened to arrest the drug courier and took the cash. Later that day, Rodriguez, the CI and the undercover agent met in a hotel room at a Pennsylvania casino to split the cash. In addition to the prison term, Judge Thompson sentenced Rodriguez to serve three years of supervised release and ordered him to pay a $2,000 fine. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford in Newark; the Special Investigations Unit of the Jersey City Police Department, under the direction of Acting Chief Joseph Connors; the Hudson County Prosecutor’s Office, under the direction of Acting Prosecutor Gaetano T. Gregory; and criminal investigators of the U.S. Attorney’s Office with the investigation leading to the charges. He also thanked the Bayonne Police Department, Waterfront Commission of New York Harbor, IRS-Criminal Investigation, U.S. Department of Labor Office of Inspector General, and the N.J. State Commission of Investigation for their significant contributions to the investigation. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan W. Romankow of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Organized Crime/Gangs Unit in Newark. The charges against Roman remain pending. They are merely accusations, and he remains innocent unless and until proven guilty. Defense counsel: Brian J. Neary Esq., Hackensack, New Jersey
corruption WASHINGTON—A former state circuit judge in Arkansas pleaded guilty today for accepting a bribe in exchange for reducing a negligence jury verdict against a Conway, Arkansas, company. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and First Assistant United States Attorney Patrick C. Harris of the Eastern District of Arkansas made the announcement. Michael A. Maggio, 53, of Conway, Arkansas, pleaded guilty to a one-count information charging him with bribery concerning programs receiving federal funds. A sentencing hearing before Chief U.S. District Judge Brian S. Miller of the Eastern District of Arkansas will be scheduled at a later date. As part of his plea agreement, Maggio admitted that in 2013, he served as an elected circuit judge for the state of Arkansas, Twentieth Judicial District, Second Division, presiding over a civil matter in Faulkner County Circuit Court. The plaintiff in that matter, the estate of a decedent, filed a complaint alleging, among other things, that a company, its owner, and others had neglected and mistreated the decedent leading to the decedent’s death while the decedent was in their care. On May 16, 2013, a jury returned a verdict in the plaintiff’s favor, awarding damages against the sole-remaining defendant, the company, in the amount of $5.2 million. Approximately one month later, the company filed a motion for new trial or to reduce the amount of damages awarded by the jury to the plaintiff. Maggio further admitted that he formally announced his candidacy for the Arkansas Court of Appeals on June 27, 2013, while the post-trial motions were pending. On July 10, 2013, Maggio entered an order reducing the verdict against the company to $1 million. Prior to that order, a fundraiser for Maggio’s campaign told Maggio that the company’s owner had committed money to support Maggio’s campaign. The fundraiser also communicated with Maggio regarding the pending post-trial motions. On July 9, 2013, the owner donated approximately $24,000 to Maggio’s campaign. As part of his plea, Maggio admitted that his decision to remit the judgment was improperly influenced by the donations that his campaign received from the company’s owner. Maggio further acknowledged that he attempted to delete text messages between the fundraiser and himself after the media became aware of the illicit contributions to his campaign. The case was investigated by the FBI’s Little Rock Field Office, and is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Edward P. Sullivan of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Julie Peters of the Eastern District of Arkansas.
corruption INDIANAPOLIS—Acting United States Attorney, Josh J Minkler announced this morning the arrest of Carmen Batts-Porter, 32, Indianapolis, who was charged by criminal complaint with theft/embezzlement of federal program funds. Batts-Porter serves as the Community Business Counselor for the Center Township Trustees Office, administering Social Security or SSI payments to beneficiaries who are incapable of managing their own payments. “Stealing from those who are the least capable is a crime we will never look away from,” said Minkler. “If you do not uphold the public trust, our Public Integrity Working Group will find you, investigate you and the U.S. Attorney’s Office will prosecute you to the fullest extent of the law.” Minkler further stated. “This is the second time in six months federal law enforcement has had to police the Center Township Trustee’s Office. It is time for Center Township Government to clean up this mess.” Batts-Porter worked at the Center Township Trustee’s Office which serves as the Representative Payee (RP) for Social Security benefits. The RP administered SSI payments to beneficiaries and whose main responsibility is to use the SSI benefits to pay for current and foreseeable needs of the beneficiary. The Center Township Trustee’s Office manages over $1 million annually for the Social Security Administration. The criminal complaint alleges that from 2010 to 2014 Batts-Porter embezzled $66,682 in Social Security Administration (SSA) funds which were held in trust for SSA beneficiaries. It is further alleged that she used the embezzled money to pay person credit cards during that period. The funds were discovered to be missing during a routine audit by SSA investigators. Minkler explained this case was the result of outstanding law enforcement work by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Social Security Administration, Office of Inspector General, and the Indiana State Board of Accounts. All three agencies are partners in the U.S. Attorney’s Public Integrity Working Group, which was launched in April 2012 with the stated purpose of aggressively investigating allegations of public fraud, waste and abuse by public officials in Indiana. Individuals with information on public corruption are encouraged to contact the U.S. Attorney’s Office at (317) 229-2443. FBI Special Agent in Charge W. Jay Abbott said, ‘“The FBI is committed to investigating individuals that violate the public’s trust.” SSA OIG, Office of Investigation, Special Agent in Charge William J. Cotter said, “It is unfortunate that, once again, the Public’s confidence in government is shaken by a civil servant lining her pockets with money stolen from some of the most vulnerable members of our society.” According to Senior Litigation Counsel Bradley A. Blackington, who is prosecuting the case for the government, Batts-Porter could be sentenced up to 10 years in federal prison if convicted. She had her initial appearance before a magistrate judge yesterday and was released; no future court date has been set. A complaint is only charges and is not evidence of guilt. A defendant is presumed innocent and is entitled to a fair trial at which the government must prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption WASHINGTON—Three former correctional officers with the Louisiana State Penitentiary in Angola, Louisiana, were sentenced today before United States District Judge James J. Brady for the Middle District of Louisiana for abusing an inmate and engaging in conduct to cover up the criminal conduct. Mark Sharp, 33, received 73 months. Kevin Groom, 47, was sentenced to one year probation and a $500 fine. Matthew Cody Butler, 29, received two years’ probation and a $3,000 fine. According to court documents filed in connection with their guilty pleas, on January 24, 2010, defendants Groom, Sharp and Butler were on duty as correctional officials when they learned that an inmate had escaped from his assigned location. Shortly after the defendants joined the search for the escapee, the inmate surrendered to prison officials. The inmate was handcuffed behind his back and placed in the back of a pick-up truck to be transported to the medical unit. Groom, Butler, and Sharp escorted the inmate on the back of that truck. During the drive to the medical unit, Sharp repeatedly struck the inmate with an baton. During the ensuring investigation of the inmate’s complaint that officers had abused him, Groom and Butler engaged in various conduct to cover up the assault. Sharp pleaded guilty to violating the civil rights of the inmate and to making false statements to the FBI. Groom pleaded guilty to falsifying records in a federal investigation and making false statements to the FBI. Butler pleaded guilty to misprision of a felony. Another former officer, Jason Giroir, also pleaded guilty on May 29, 2013, to falsifying a report and making a false statement to the FBI. He will be sentenced separately on January 29, 2015. “The vast majority of American law enforcement officers conduct themselves with honor,” said Acting Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta for the Civil Rights Division. “But when law enforcement officers abuse inmates and attempt to cover-up their misconduct, the Department of Justice stands ready to hold those officers accountable for their conduct.” “It is unfortunate that the defendants’ criminal activities threaten to overshadow the courageous and outstanding work performed every day by the vast majority of law enforcement officers, both inside and outside the penal system,” said U.S. Attorney J. Walter Green for the Middle District of Louisiana. “This thorough and patient investigation not only resulted in the full accountability of all correctional officers involved, but also demonstrated unwavering adherence to the procedural rights of the victim and accused,” said Special Agent in Charge Michael J. Anderson of the FBI’s New Orleans Office. The investigation in this matter was conducted by Special Agent Taneka Harris of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and prosecuted by Civil Rights Division Trial Attorney AeJean Cha and Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert W. Piedrahita.
corruption SAVANNAH, GA—Derrick Andre Fullmer, 27, of Pooler, Georgia, was indicted this week by a federal grand jury sitting in Savannah on charges related to a conspiracy involving the illegal possession and distribution of the controlled substance MDMA, more commonly known as “ecstasy” or “molly.” Fullmer was charged with conspiring to distribute molly as well as aiding and abetting other conspirators. During much of the time of the charged conspiracy, Fullmer was an officer with the Savannah-Chatham Metropolitan Police Department (SCMPD). Fullmer was arraigned before United States Magistrate Judge G.R. Smith today. The charge against Fullmer carries a 20-year maximum prison sentence. U.S. Attorney Ed Tarver emphasized that an indictment is only an accusation and is not evidence of guilt. The defendant is entitled to a fair trial, during which it will be the government’s burden to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. The investigation of this case was conducted by the FBI, the Chatham Savannah Counter Narcotics Team (CNT) and SCMPD. Assistant United States Attorney Scarlett S. Nokes is prosecuting the case on behalf of the United States. For additional information, please contact First Assistant United States Attorney James D. Durham at (912) 201-2547.
corruption Suffolk County Conservative Party Chairman Edward M. Walsh, Jr. was arrested today on charges that he engaged in a scheme to steal wages for regular and overtime hours in connection with his employment with the Suffolk County Sheriff’s Office (“SCSO”). He was arraigned today before United States Magistrate Judge A. Kathleen Tomlinson at the federal courthouse in Central Islip. The charges were announced by Loretta E. Lynch, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, and George Venizelos, Assistant Director-in-Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation, New York Field Office (FBI). As alleged in the criminal complaint unsealed today, from January 2011 to April 2014, Walsh, a SCSO Correction Officer III Investigator, falsely represented to the SCSO that he had worked certain regular and overtime hours when, in fact, he did not. Contrary to his representations, Walsh was, among other things, playing golf, gambling at Foxwoods Casino, or performing work on behalf of the Suffolk County Conservative Party. In reliance on Walsh’s false representations, the SCSO paid Walsh approximately $80,000 in wages for regular and overtime hours he did not work. To conceal his scheme, Walsh allegedly lied to FBI agents, claiming that he worked flex time or was on the telephone regarding his work at the SCSO even while at the golf course. “Instead of upholding the law, Edward Walsh abused his position and authority and robbed from taxpayers to fund his personal and political activities,” stated United States Attorney Lynch. “We and our partners in the FBI will continue to root out government fraud wherever we find it.” FBI Assistant Director-in-Charge Venizelos stated, “Mr. Walsh shook down county government for hours he never worked. In reality, he was often on the ninth hole practicing his putting, among other things. Mr. Walsh today finds himself in serious trouble with the law for allegedly defrauding Suffolk County.” The charges in the complaint are merely allegations, and the defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. The government’s case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Catherine M. Mirabile and Raymond A. Tierney. The Defendant: EDWARD M. WALSH, JR. Age: 48 East Islip, New York Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption WASHINGTON—The former owner and President of Chestnut Consulting Group Inc. and Chestnut Consulting Group Co. (generally referred to as the “Chestnut Group”) was indicted by a federal grand jury today for his alleged participation in a scheme to pay bribes to a foreign official in violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the Travel Act, and to launder proceeds of those crimes. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Zane David Memeger of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania and Special Agent in Charge Edward J. Hanko of the FBI’s Philadelphia Division made the announcement. “We are committed to combating foreign corruption, across the globe and across all industries, through enforcement actions and prosecutions of companies and the individuals who run those companies,” said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. “As alleged, in this case, the owner and chief executive of a Pennsylvania financial consulting firm secured hundreds of millions of dollars in business by bribing a European banking official. He now faces an indictment for corruption in federal court. Bribery of foreign officials undermines the public trust in government and fair competition in business. The charges returned today reflect the clear message that we will root out corruption and prosecute individuals who violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.” “We will aggressively investigate and prosecute individuals in our district who use corrupt means like bribery to influence foreign officials,” said U.S. Attorney Memeger. “Our criminal statutes in this arena must be enforced to ensure fair dealing in a competitive global marketplace where foreign officials often hold significant decision-making authority. The alleged conduct here was particularly reprehensible because it undermined the legitimacy of a process designed to support businesses for the citizens of developing nations.” “This is a great example of the FBI’s ability to successfully coordinate with our international law enforcement partners to tackle corruption,” said Special Agent in Charge Hanko. “Bribery—foreign or domestic—cripples the notion of fair competition in the marketplace.” Dmitrij Harder, 42, of Huntingdon Valley, Pennsylvania, the former owner and president of the Chestnut Group, was charged with one count of conspiracy to violate the FCPA and Travel Act, five counts of violating the FCPA, five counts of violating the Travel Act, one count of conspiracy to commit international money laundering, and two counts of money laundering. According to allegations in the indictment, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) was a multilateral development bank headquartered in London, England, and was owned by over 60 sovereign nations. Among other things, the EBRD provided financing for development projects in emerging economies, primarily in Eastern Europe. According to allegations in the indictment, Harder and others paid bribes for the benefit of a senior official at the EBRD in exchange for influencing the official’s actions on applications for financing submitted by the Chestnut Group’s clients and for directing business to the Chestnut Group. The EBRD ultimately approved applications for financing from two of the Chestnut Group’s corporate clients; the first resulted in the EBRD providing an $85 million investment and a 90 million Euro loan, while the second resulted in a $40 million investment and a $60 million convertible loan. The Chestnut Group allegedly earned approximately $8 million in “success fees” as a result of the EBRD’s approval of these two applications. The indictment alleges that Harder made five payments totaling more than $3.5 million to the sister of the EBRD official, in part as an effort to conceal the bribes. These payments were allegedly made for purported consulting and other services provided to the Chestnut Group by the official’s sister, when in fact she provided no such services. Harder also allegedly participated in creating fake documents to justify these payments. The charges contained in the indictment are merely accusations, and the defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. The case is being investigated by the FBI’s Philadelphia Division. The Criminal Division’s Office of International Affairs also provided assistance. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant Chief Leo R. Tsao of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Michelle Morgan of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. Additional information about the Justice Department’s FCPA enforcement efforts can be found at www.justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.
corruption WASHINGTON—The former Virginia Governor Robert F. McDonnell, 60, of Glen Allen, Virginia, was sentenced today to two years in prison for soliciting and obtaining payments, loans, gifts and other items from Star Scientific, a Virginia-based corporation, and Jonnie R. Williams Sr., Star Scientific’s then chief executive officer, in violation of federal public corruption laws. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Dana J. Boente of the Eastern District of Virginia, Special Agent in Charge Adam S. Lee of the FBI’s Richmond Field Office, Chief Richard Weber of the Internal Revenue Service – Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI) and Virginia State Police Superintendent Colonel W. Steven Flaherty made the announcement. Senior U.S. District Judge James R. Spencer of the Eastern District of Virginia imposed the sentence. Robert McDonnell and his wife, Maureen McDonnell, were convicted following a jury trial of one count of conspiracy to commit honest-services wire fraud and one count of conspiracy to obtain property under color of official right. Robert McDonnell was also convicted of three counts of honest-services wire fraud and six counts of obtaining property under color of official right, while Maureen McDonnell was convicted of two counts of honest services wire fraud counts and four counts of obtaining property under color of official right. In total, Robert McDonnell was convicted of 11 of 13 counts and Maureen McDonnell was convicted of eight of 13 counts. “Robert McDonnell corrupted the most powerful office in Virginia and fractured the public’s trust,” said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. “Taking bribes in exchange for official actions is not politics as usual – it is an insidious crime that strikes at the heart of public service and will not be tolerated.” According to the evidence presented at trial, from April 2011 through March 2013, the McDonnells participated in a scheme to use the former governor’s official position to enrich themselves and their family members by soliciting and obtaining payments, loans, gifts and other things of value from Star Scientific and Jonnie R. Williams Sr. The McDonnells obtained these items in exchange for the former governor performing official actions to legitimize, promote and obtain research studies for Star’s products, including the dietary supplement Anatabloc. According to evidence presented at trial, the McDonnells obtained from Williams more than $170,000 in direct payments as gifts and loans, thousands of dollars in golf outings, and numerous items. As part of the scheme, Robert McDonnell arranged meetings for Williams with Virginia government officials, hosted and attended events at the Governor’s Mansion designed to encourage Virginia university researchers to initiate studies of Star’s products and to promote Star’s products to doctors, contacted other Virginia government officials to encourage Virginia state research universities to initiate studies of Star’s products, and promoted Star’s products and facilitated its relationships with Virginia government officials. The evidence further showed that the McDonnells attempted to conceal the things of value received from Williams and Star to hide the nature and scope of their dealings with Williams from the citizens of Virginia by, for example, routing gifts and loans through family members and corporate entities controlled by the former governor to avoid annual disclosure requirements. Maureen McDonnell is scheduled to be sentenced on Feb. 20, 2015. The case was investigated by the FBI, IRS-CI and the Virginia State Police, and is being prosecuted by Deputy Chief David V. Harbach II of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Michael S. Dry, Jessica D. Aber and Ryan S. Faulconer of the Eastern District of Virginia.
corruption NEWARK, NJ—The former Rockaway Township superintendent of schools today admitted instructing a witness to lie to the FBI about $4,000 that the witness had previously given to him, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Gary Vitta, 63, of Denville, New Jersey, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Stanley R. Chesler to an information charging him with one count of attempted witness tampering. According to the documents filed in this case and statements made in court: Vitta was the superintendent of the Rockaway Township School District from 2006 to 2011. He dealt with brokers who provided insurance brokerage services to the district and were paid a commission for the insurance contracts they negotiated. At a Vitta family event, Vitta accepted approximately $4,000 in cash from three of the brokers who had provided insurance brokerage services. Shortly after accepting the $4,000, Vitta returned the $4,000 to one of the insurance brokers. Then, in December 2013, Vitta again accepted the $4,000 from the same insurance broker to whom he had returned it. After accepting the $4,000, Vitta was interviewed by law enforcement agents with the FBI about any benefits that he may have received from insurance brokers who provided brokerage services to the school district. Vitta failed to mention the $4,000 that he had recently received from an insurance broker, or the $4,000 that he had previously received from three insurance brokers at a family event. Following the interview, Vitta contacted the insurance broker who had repaid him the $4,000 in December 2013. He met the insurance broker at a restaurant in Denville, New Jersey, where they first discussed whether the broker was wearing a wire. Vitta told broker that he had recently been approached by FBI agents. He handed the broker a note instructing the broker to lie to the FBI about the $4,000 that the broker had given to him in December 2013. He instructed the broker to lie about the $4,000 that Vitta had previously received at a family event. He also confirmed to this broker that one of the other insurance brokers who had paid him money at that family event also would lie to the FBI if questioned about that payment. The witness tampering charge to which Vitta pleaded guilty carries a maximum potential penalty of 20 years in prison and a maximum fine of $250,000. Sentencing is scheduled for April 22, 2015. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford in Newark, with the investigation leading to today’s guilty plea. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Rahul Agarwal and Lee M. Cortes Jr. of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division in Newark.
corruption ABINGDON, VA—Acting United States Attorney Anthony P. Giorno announced today that Scottie Austin was sentenced in the United States District Court for the Western District of Virginia in Abingdon on charges of receiving bribes. Scottie Austin, 44, of Kingsport, Tenn., who at the time of his offenses worked as a correctional officer at United States Penitentiary Lee County, previously pled guilty to a one count Information charging him with accepting a bribe as a public official. Today in District Court, Austin was sentenced to 12 months and one day of federal incarceration. “Mr. Austin betrayed the trust placed in him by the Department of Corrections through his illegal and potentially dangerous activity,” Acting United States Attorney Anthony P. Giorno said today. “The investigation and prosecution of this case shows that our office and our investigative partners will pursue justice no matter the position of the individual who breaks federal law.” According to evidence presented at the guilty plea and sentencing hearings by Assistant United States Attorney Zachary T. Lee, Austin was employed as a correctional officer for the United States Bureau of Prisons at United States Penitentiary Lee County, Virginia, in Jonesville, Va. Between April 2013 and April 2014, Austin received multiple monetary payments, totaling at least $10,000, from family members of an inmate at the penitentiary in return for Austin smuggling tobacco products and cellular telephones into the penitentiary. These items were then provided to the inmate in violation of Bureau of Prisons regulations. The investigation of this case was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, United States Bureau of Prisons Special Investigative Service at United States Penitentiary Lee County, and the United States Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General. Assistant United States Attorney Zachary T. Lee prosecuted the case for the United States.
corruption COLUMBIA, SC—United States Attorney Bill Nettles stated today that James R. Metts, age 68, of Lexington, South Carolina, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to harbor and conceal illegal aliens, a violation of 8 U.S.C. § 1324(a)(1)(A)(v)(I). Chief United States District Judge Terry L. Wooten of Columbia accepted the guilty plea today in federal court in Columbia and will sentence Metts after he has reviewed the presentence report to be prepared by the U.S. Probation Office. Bill Nettles remarked, “Prior to June he was Sheriff James Metts, the 42-year veteran Sheriff of Lexington County. When we finish, he will leave this courthouse Jimmy Metts, the felon, and the citizens of Lexington County can move forward. This result would not have been possible without the ongoing substantial cooperation to combat public corruption among an array of federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies; the South Carolina Attorney General, Alan Wilson; and my office.” Evidence presented at the change of plea hearing established that beginning in September 2011, Metts agreed with others—on the phone and in person—to assist illegal aliens incarcerated in the Lexington County Detention Center and subject to immigration processing pursuant to a cooperative federal immigration program. In doing so, Metts and his co-conspirators knew these aliens were present in the United States illegally. For example, on September 16, an illegal alien was arrested. After Metts received a call from his co-conspirator the next morning, Metts intervened on behalf of the illegal alien. Based on Metts’ early intervention, this alien was released on a state bond prior to being identified or processed by federal immigration authorities as reflected in the federal immigration logbook with the notation, “Release per Sheriff Metts.” Mr. Nettles stated the maximum penalty for Conspiracy to Harbor and Conceal Illegal Aliens is imprisonment for 10 years and/or a fine of $250,000. In the plea agreement filed with the Court, the Government agreed that a sentence of three years of probation was an appropriate resolution for Metts. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Homeland Security Investigation, State Law Enforcement Division (SLED), the South Carolina Attorney General’s Office, and the United States Attorney’s Office. Assistant United States Attorneys Jay N. Richardson and Jim H. May are prosecuting the case.
corruption BIRMINGHAM—A federal grand jury today indicted a Huntsville police officer in connection with a conspiracy to fix cocaine trafficking charges against an individual arrested by another Huntsville officer, announced U.S. Attorney Joyce White Vance, FBI Special Agent in Charge Richard D. Schwein Jr. and Huntsville Police Chief Lewis Morris. A four-count indictment filed in U.S. District Court charges LEWIS BERNARD HALL, 45, of Meridianville, Ala., with conspiracy, bribery, obstruction of justice and making a false statement to investigators. According to the charges, Hall conspired with someone identified in the indictment as “Individual B” to pay a fellow police officer $5,000 if that officer would claim his July 29 vehicle search that resulted in drug-trafficking charges against “Individual A” was unlawful, thereby making the criminal case against Individual A go away. The Huntsville officer who conducted the vehicle search and, subsequently, assisted in the investigation of Hall is identified in the indictment as “Cooperating Officer.” “Our community expects and deserves police officers who will protect citizens and uphold the law, not tarnish their badge and work to protect criminals,” Vance said. “The U.S. Attorney’s Office prosecutes public corruption cases to punish those who violate the law and the public trust and to reinforce the need and expectation of integrity in government and police service.” “Public corruption is the FBI’s number one criminal priority for a reason,” Schwein said. “It tears at the fabric of our democracy and works to undermine the public’s trust and confidence in the government. The FBI will continue to aggressively investigate violations of that trust committed by any public official, regardless of position.” “The Huntsville Police Department contacted the FBI as soon as we learned of possible corruption and we assisted the FBI in its investigation,” Morris said. “I want to assure the public that this indictment addresses the actions of one police officer, and the Huntsville department will diligently address any other issues that might come to our attention. We value the working relationship we enjoy with the FBI and the U.S. Attorney’s Office and appreciate their attention to this case.” According to the indictment’s conspiracy count, on July 31, Hall and Individual B discussed offering the Cooperating Officer a bribe to tell other law enforcement officers that his search of Individual A’s vehicle, which uncovered about three ounces of cocaine, was unlawful. Hall offered the bribe to the Cooperating Officer on July 31, paid him $1,000 on Aug. 12, and had two follow-up conversations in November about what the officer was supposed to say when asked about the search of Individual A’s vehicle, the indictment says. The bribery count charges Hall with corruptly offering the bribe to an agent of the City of Huntsville and its police department, which received more than $10,000 in federal benefits within one year, to influence the Cooperating Officer in how he reported the July 29 vehicle search. The obstruction of justice count charges Hall with offering the bribe with the intent to delay or prevent the reporting of a felony or possible felony offense and the violation of conditions of supervised release by Individual A. The false statement count charges Hall with knowingly making a false statement to an FBI agent on Dec. 8, saying he did not give money to the Cooperating Officer in connection with that officer’s reporting of his search of Individual A’s vehicle. The maximum penalty for both the conspiracy and the false statement charges is five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. The maximum penalty for the bribery count is 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine, and the maximum for the obstruction count is 20 years in prison and a $250,000. The FBI investigated the case in conjunction with the Huntsville Police Department. Assistant U.S. Attorney George A. Martin Jr. is prosecuting the case.
corruption CORPUS CHRISTI, TX—An investment account located in McAllen, Texas alleged to be owned by Homero De La Garza Tamez, former Instituto Tamaulipeco De Vivienda Y Urbanismo (ITAVU) Director in the State of Tamaulipas, Mexico, has been seized by the United States government as a result of an the efforts of a multi-agency Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF) investigation, United States Attorney Kenneth Magidson of the Southern District of Texas announced today. The account, which is held at UBS Financial Services, Inc. in McAllen, Texas, contained $1,109,989.66 as of November 4, 2014. The government alleged, as its basis for forfeiture, that the funds in the account were involved in a money laundering transaction, that the property constitutes or was derived from proceeds traceable to offenses including bribery of a public official, or the misappropriation, theft, or embezzlement of public funds by or for the benefit of a public official. The government alleged in the civil forfeiture complaint that the account holder of the UBS investment account is Homero De La Garza Tamez, who transferred bribe monies from Mexico into the account in the United States. ITAVU is the Tamaulipas Institute for Housing and Urban Development. Homero De La Garza was appointed to the position of director of ITAVU by former Tamaulipas Govenor Eugenio Hernandez Flores. ITAVU is the department in Tamaulipas responsible for supporting lower income residents with housing programs and financing programs. One of the programs under ITAVU assisted municipalities by paying half of the costs associated with the repair of city streets and the construction of new streets within their city. The city would pay the remaining half of the costs. The program did not require municipalities to participate in the program. ITAVU also developed properties and built homes, in conjunction with providing special financing programs, which allowed low income families to move into new homes. The complaint alleges that, during his tenure as the director of ITAVU, Homero De La Garza Tamez would receive bribery money from government contractors who received contracts from the state government of Tamaulipas after Homero De La Garza Tamez and others would falsify and manipulate the contracts during the bidding process. The complaint further alleges that Homero De La Garza received multiple of these types of payments throughout his political career and that he received these bribes in the forms of cash and bank deposits made into his bank accounts, including the UBS account. The complaint seeks the forfeiture of the $1,109,986.66 held in the investment account at UBS Financial Service, Inc. The investigation leading to the civil forfeiture complaint was conducted through OCDETF in McAllen, San Antonio, Brownsville, Houston, and Corpus Christi. The Federal Bureau of Investigation, Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigations, the Drug Enforcement Administration, Homeland Security Investigations, the Texas Attorney General’s Office, and the Leon Valley Police Department conducted the investigation. This case is being prosecuted in the Southern District of Texas by Assistant United States Attorney Julie K. Hampton.
corruption BALTIMORE, MD—Aaron G. Seltzer, age 38, of Trappe, Maryland, pleaded guilty today to wire fraud in connection with a scheme in which he converted funds intended for real estate investments to his personal use. The guilty plea was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge William Winter of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s (ICE) Homeland Security Investigations (HSI); and Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. According to his plea agreement and court documents, Seltzer was a licensed Maryland attorney who handled real estate transactions and maintained an office in Crofton, Maryland. From January 2008, through 2010, Seltzer offered victims fraudulent investment opportunities then diverted the money intended for the investments for his own benefit. Seltzer obtained a total of $768,242 through seven fraudulent transactions. As part of his plea agreement, Seltzer is required to pay restitution in that amount. For example, Seltzer offered to sell an investor 45 percent of an Anne Arundel County real estate company, claiming that he owned 100% of the stock, assets and liabilities of the company, when in fact, he did not. The investor sent a total of $92,000 to Seltzer, which Seltzer used for his own benefit. During the summer of 2009, Seltzer contacted a lawyer in New York and represented that a client of Seltzer’s was seeking a business loan. Seltzer proposed that the loan be secured by a mortgage on three commercial properties located in Virginia, purportedly owned by Seltzer’s client. The New York attorney assembled a group of investors to fund the loan. Seltzer presented the attorney with a fraudulent promissory note, which Seltzer falsely claimed was signed by a representative of his client. Seltzer further falsely represented that he had conducted the closing for the loan and presented the attorney with fabricated closing documents. On behalf of the investors, the attorney wired Seltzer $497,527 to fund the loan, which Seltzer diverted to his own benefit. Seltzer was investigated by the Maryland Attorney Grievance Commission for his conduct in the scheme and was subsequently disbarred. Seltzer faces a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison for wire fraud. U.S. District Judge J. Frederick Motz has scheduled Seltzer’s sentencing for April 10, 2015, at 10:00 a.m. Today’s announcement is part of efforts underway by President Obama’s Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force (FFETF) which was created in November 2009 to wage an aggressive, coordinated and proactive effort to investigate and prosecute financial crimes. With more than 20 federal agencies, 94 U.S. attorneys’ offices and state and local partners, it’s the broadest coalition of law enforcement, investigatory and regulatory agencies ever assembled to combat fraud. Since its formation, the task force has made great strides in facilitating increased investigation and prosecution of financial crimes; enhancing coordination and cooperation among federal, state and local authorities; addressing discrimination in the lending and financial markets and conducting outreach to the public, victims, financial institutions and other organizations. Over the past three fiscal years, the Justice Department has filed more than 10,000 financial fraud cases against nearly 15,000 defendants including more than 2,700 mortgage fraud defendants. For more information on the task force, visit www.stopfraud.gov. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised HSI Baltimore, and the FBI and for their work in the investigation and recognized the Maryland Attorney Grievance Commission and Bar Counsel Glenn Grossman for their assistance. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant U.S. Attorney Leo J. Wise, who is prosecuting the case.
corruption BIRMINGHAM—A former Winston County sheriff’s deputy pleaded guilty today in federal court to using his police authority to extort a woman to cook methamphetamine, and to causing her to manufacture and distribute the drug at the home where she lived with a minor child, announced U.S. Attorney Joyce White Vance and FBI Special Agent in Charge Richard D. Schwein Jr. GRADY KEITH CONCORD, 42, of Lynn, entered his guilty pleas before U.S. District Judge Abdul K Kallon to one count of extortion under color of official right, one count of manufacturing methamphetamine and one count of manufacturing and distributing methamphetamine on premises where children are present or reside. The U.S. Attorney’s Office filed the charges against Concord in November. “Sheriff’s deputies are supposed to protect people from harm. Instead, this defendant broke the law and coerced a woman into violating the law and manufacturing methamphetamine for him in a way that put lives, including a child’s, in danger,” Vance said. “Most law enforcement officers serve honorably, but we will prosecute those who break the law.” “We entrust law enforcement officers with certain powers and authority, which they are expected to wield with the utmost integrity,” Schwein said. “Mr. Concord’s actions breached the public trust and dishonored the badge that he once carried. This case shows that abuse of that power and authority will not be tolerated.” According to his plea, Concord was a Winston County Sheriff’s deputy in July 2013 when he approached a woman living in the town of Nauvoo and pressured her to manufacture methamphetamine for him. Concord used the illegal drug and arranged to supply the woman with pseudoephedrine, a necessary ingredient of methamphetamine, in exchange for a portion of the finished product. Concord disputes the woman’s claim that he threatened her with an arrest warrant unless she agreed to the arrangement, but he concedes that because he was a sheriff’s deputy, she may have felt that she “had no choice but to accept his offer,” he acknowledged in his plea agreement with the government. On several occasions between July 2013 through June 2014, Concord delivered pseudoephedrine to the woman’s home, where she manufactured the methamphetamine, and where he picked up the illegal drug, he acknowledged during his guilty plea today. Concord obtained decongestant pills containing pseudoephedrine from the sheriff’s office evidence room, and he and his wife both bought the pills, according to his plea. Concord acknowledged that he knew the woman had two sons who lived with her, and that one of them was a minor. He faces a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine on the extortion count and a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a $1 million fine on the count of manufacturing methamphetamine. Any sentence imposed for the manufacture of methamphetamine where minors reside or are present must be served consecutively to any other sentence imposed. The maximum penalty for that count is 20 years in prison and a $2 million fine. As part of Concord’s plea agreement, he must surrender all law enforcement certifications and not seek future employment in law enforcement or custodial oversight, including as a correctional or probation officer or bail bondsman. The FBI, State Bureau of Investigation, agents of the Lauderdale County Drug Task Force assigned to the FBI’s Safe Streets Task Force, the Winston/Marion County District Attorney’s Office, with the cooperation of the Winston County Sheriff’s Office and the Lynn Police Department, investigated the case. Assistant U.S. Attorney Tamarra Matthews Johnson is prosecuting the case.
corruption WASHINGTON—Alstom S.A. (Alstom), a French power and transportation company, pleaded guilty today and agreed to pay a $772,290,000 fine to resolve charges related to a widespread scheme involving tens of millions of dollars in bribes in countries around the world, including Indonesia, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and the Bahamas. Deputy Attorney General James M. Cole, Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, First Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael J. Gustafson of the District of Connecticut and FBI Executive Assistant Director Robert Anderson Jr. made the announcement. “Alstom’s corruption scheme was sustained over more than a decade and across several continents,” said Deputy Attorney General Cole. “It was astounding in its breadth, its brazenness and its worldwide consequences. And it is both my expectation—and my intention—that the comprehensive resolution we are announcing today will send an unmistakable message to other companies around the world: that this Department of Justice will be relentless in rooting out and punishing corruption to the fullest extent of the law, no matter how sweeping its scale or how daunting its prosecution.” “This case is emblematic of how the Department of Justice will investigate and prosecute FCPA cases—and other corporate crimes,” said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. “We encourage companies to maintain robust compliance programs, to voluntarily disclose and eradicate misconduct when it is detected, and to cooperate in the government’s investigation. But we will not wait for companies to act responsibly. With cooperation or without it, the department will identify criminal activity at corporations and investigate the conduct ourselves, using all of our resources, employing every law enforcement tool, and considering all possible actions, including charges against both corporations and individuals.” “Today’s historic resolution is an important reminder that our moral and legal mandate to stamp out corruption does not stop at any border, whether city, state or national,” said First Assistant U.S. Attorney Gustafson. “A significant part of this illicit work was unfortunately carried out from Alstom Power’s offices in Windsor, Connecticut. I am hopeful that this resolution, and in particular the deferred prosecution agreement with Alstom Power, will provide the company an opportunity to reshape its culture and restore its place as a respected corporate citizen.” “This investigation spanned years and crossed continents, as agents from the FBI Washington and New Haven field offices conducted interviews and collected evidence in every corner of the globe,” said FBI Executive Assistant Director Anderson. “The record dollar amount of the fine is a clear deterrent to companies who would engage in foreign bribery, but an even better deterrent is that we are sending executives who commit these crimes to prison.” Alstom pleaded guilty to a two-count criminal information filed today in the U.S. District Court for the District of Connecticut, charging the company with violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) by falsifying its books and records and failing to implement adequate internal controls. Alstom admitted its criminal conduct and agreed to pay a criminal penalty of $772,290,000. U.S. District Judge Janet B. Arterton of the District of Connecticut scheduled a sentencing hearing for June 23, 2015 at 3 p.m.. In addition, Alstom Network Schweiz AG, formerly Alstom Prom (Alstom Prom), Alstom’s Swiss subsidiary, pleaded guilty to a criminal information charging the company with conspiracy to violate the anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA. Alstom Power Inc. (Alstom Power) and Alstom Grid Inc. (Alstom Grid), two U.S. subsidiaries, both entered into deferred prosecution agreements, admitting that they conspired to violate the anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA. Alstom Power is headquartered in Windsor, Connecticut, and Alstom Grid, formerly Alstom T&D, was headquartered in New Jersey. According to the companies’ admissions, Alstom, Alstom Prom, Alstom Power and Alstom Grid, through various executives and employees, paid bribes to government officials and falsified books and records in connection with power, grid and transportation projects for state-owned entities around the world, including in Indonesia, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, the Bahamas and Taiwan. In Indonesia, for example, Alstom, Alstom Prom, and Alstom Power paid bribes to government officials—including a high-ranking member of the Indonesian Parliament and high-ranking members of Perusahaan Listrik Negara, the state-owned electricity company in Indonesia—in exchange for assistance in securing several contracts to provide power-related services valued at approximately $375 million. In total, Alstom paid more than $75 million to secure $4 billion in projects around the world, with a profit to the company of approximately $300 million. Alstom and its subsidiaries also attempted to conceal the bribery scheme by retaining consultants purportedly to provide consulting services on behalf of the companies, but who actually served as conduits for corrupt payments to the government officials. Internal Alstom documents refer to some of the consultants in code, including “Mr. Geneva,” “Mr. Paris,” “London,” “Quiet Man” and “Old Friend.” The plea agreement cites many factors considered by the department in reaching the appropriate resolution, including: Alstom’s failure to voluntarily disclose the misconduct even though it was aware of related misconduct at a U.S. subsidiary that previously resolved corruption charges with the department in connection with a power project in Italy; Alstom’s refusal to fully cooperate with the department’s investigation for several years; the breadth of the companies’ misconduct, which spanned many years, occurred in countries around the globe and in several business lines, and involved sophisticated schemes to bribe high-level government officials; Alstom’s lack of an effective compliance and ethics program at the time of the conduct; and Alstom’s prior criminal misconduct, including conduct that led to resolutions with various other governments and the World Bank. After the department publicly charged several Alstom executives, however, Alstom began providing thorough cooperation, including assisting the department’s prosecution of other companies and individuals. To date, the department has announced charges against five individuals, including four corporate executives of Alstom and its subsidiaries, for alleged corrupt conduct involving Alstom. Frederic Pierucci, Alstom’s former vice president of global boiler sales, pleaded guilty on July 29, 2013, to conspiring to violate the FCPA and a charge of violating the FCPA for his role in the Indonesia bribery scheme. David Rothschild, Alstom Power’s former vice president of regional sales, pleaded guilty on Nov. 2, 2012, to conspiracy to violate the FCPA. William Pomponi, Alstom Power’s former vice president of regional sales, pleaded guilty on July 17, 2014, to conspiracy to violate the FCPA. Lawrence Hoskins, Alstom’s former senior vice president for the Asia region, was charged in a second superseding indictment on July 30, 2013, and is pending trial in the District of Connecticut in June 2015. The charges against Hoskins are merely allegations, and he is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. The high-ranking member of Indonesian Parliament was also convicted in Indonesia of accepting bribes from Alstom, and is currently serving a three-year term of imprisonment. In connection with a corrupt scheme in Egypt, Asem Elgawhary, the general manager of an entity working on behalf of the Egyptian Electricity Holding Company, a state-owned electricity company, pleaded guilty on Dec. 4, 2014, in federal court in the District of Maryland to mail fraud, conspiring to launder money, and tax fraud for accepting kickbacks from Alstom and other companies. In his plea agreement, Elgawhary agreed to serve 42 months in prison and forfeit approximately $5.2 million in proceeds. This case is being investigated by the FBI’s Washington Field Office, with assistance from the FBI’s Meriden, Connecticut Resident Agency, and the FBI’s Newark and Baltimore Divisions. The department appreciates the significant cooperation provided by its law enforcement colleagues in Indonesia at the Komisi Pemberantasan Korupsi (Corruption Eradication Commission), the Office of the Attorney General in Switzerland, the Serious Fraud Office in the United Kingdom, as well as authorities in Germany, Italy, Singapore, Saudi Arabia, Cyprus and Taiwan. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant Chief Daniel S. Kahn of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney David E. Novick of the District of Connecticut, together with Assistant U.S. Attorney Zach Intrater of the District of New Jersey on the investigation of Alstom Grid and Assistant U.S. Attorney David I. Salem of the District of Maryland on the investigation of Asem Elgawhary. The Criminal Division’s Office of International Affairs also provided substantial assistance. Additional information about the Justice Department’s FCPA enforcement efforts can be found at www.justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.
corruption JACKSONVILLE, FL—United States Attorney A. Lee Bentley, III announces that Harold B. Walbey, III (46 Jacksonville) has pleaded guilty to wire fraud and identity theft. He faces a maximum penalty of 20 years in federal prison. His sentencing hearing has not yet been scheduled. Walbey was indicted on December 11, 2013. According to court documents, from at least in or about 2010 and continuing through about May 2012, Walbey, in his capacity as a correctional officer at the John E. Goode Pre-trial Detention Facility (PTDF), stole the personal identifying information of unknowing inmates that were housed at the facility. As a part of this scheme, Walbey maintained a notebook that contained 49 names, social security numbers, and dates of births of prisoners that were incarcerated at the PTDF. Once this information was stolen, fraudulent debit card accounts and W-2 forms were created in the inmates’ names. A fraudulent tax return was then electronically filed using various online tax software tools such as Turbo Tax. From 2010 through 2012, Walbey filed tax returns in 38 different prisoners’ names, claiming more than $250,000 in fraudulent refunds. This case was investigated by the Jacksonville Sheriff’s Office, Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Malisa Chokshi.
corruption WASHINGTON—Twelve former Puerto Rico police officers have been sentenced for using their law enforcement affiliation and equipment to commit robbery and extortion, and to sell illegal narcotics and manipulate court records. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodríguez-Vélez of the District of Puerto Rico and Special Agent in Charge Carlos Cases of the FBI’s San Juan Division made the announcement. The following 12 defendants have been sentenced: Osvaldo Vazquez-Ruiz was sentenced to 138 months in prison. Vazquez-Ruiz pleaded guilty on Aug. 21, 2014, to conspiracy to violate the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) and carrying a firearm during and in relation to a crime of violence. Orlando Sierra-Pereira was sentenced to 157 months in prison. Sierra-Pereira pleaded guilty on Aug. 21, 2014, to conspiracy to violate RICO and carrying a firearm during and in relation to a crime of violence. Danny Nieves-Rivera was sentenced to 157 months in prison. Nieves-Rivera pleaded guilty on Aug. 21, 2014, to conspiracy to violate RICO and carrying a firearm during and in relation to a crime of violence. Roberto Ortiz-Cintron was sentenced to 154 months in prison. Ortiz-Cintron pleaded guilty on Aug. 21, 2014, to conspiracy to violate RICO and carrying a firearm during and in relation to a crime of violence. Yovanny Crespo-Candelaria was sentenced to 70 months in prison. Crespo-Candelaria pleaded guilty on Aug. 21, 2014, to conspiracy to violate RICO. Nadab Arroyo-Rosa was sentenced to 78 months in prison. Arroyo-Rosa pleaded guilty on Aug. 21, 2014, to conspiracy to violate RICO. Jose Flores-Villalongo was sentenced to 78 months in prison. Flores-Villalongo pleaded guilty on Aug. 21, 2014, to conspiracy to violate RICO. Eduardo Montañez-Perez was sentenced to 63 months in prison. Montañez-Perez pleaded guilty on Aug. 15, 2014, to conspiracy to violate RICO. Carlos Candelario-Santiago was sentenced to 63 months in prison. Candelario-Santiago pleaded guilty on Aug. 15, 2014, to conspiracy to violate RICO. Ruben Casiano-Pietri was sentenced to 78 months in prison. Casiano-Pietri pleaded guilty on Aug. 21, 2014, to attempted Hobbs Act robbery. Ricardo Rivera-Rodriguez was sentenced to 33 months in prison. Rivera-Rodriguez pleaded guilty on Aug. 25, 2014, to attempted Hobbs Act extortion under color of official right. Christian Valles-Collazo was sentenced to 78 months in prison. Valles-Collazo pleaded guilty on Aug. 21, 2014, to attempted Hobbs Act robbery. All 12 of the above defendants were sentenced by Senior U.S. District Judge Daniel R. Dominguez of the District of Puerto Rico, and the remaining four defendants convicted in this case are scheduled to be sentenced in January 2015. At the time of the crimes, Flores-Villalongo and Candelario-Santiago were sergeants with the Police of Puerto Rico; the others were police officers. The officers convicted of the RICO conspiracy admitted to being members of a criminal organization that sought to enrich its members through a pattern of illegal conduct. Over the course of the conspiracy, the officers worked together to conduct traffic stops and enter homes or buildings used by persons suspected of being engaged in criminal activity to steal money, property and narcotics. The officers also planted evidence to make false arrests, and then extorted money in exchange for their victims’ release from custody. In exchange for bribe payments, the officers gave false testimony, manipulated court records and failed to appear in court when required so that cases would be dismissed. Additionally, the officers sold and distributed wholesale quantities of narcotics. As just a few examples of their criminal conduct, in April 2012, Vazquez-Ruiz and Sierra-Pereira conducted a traffic stop in their capacity as police officers and stole approximately $22,000 they believed to be illegal drug proceeds. Vazquez-Ruiz later attempted to extort approximately $8,000 from an individual he believed to be a drug dealer’s accomplice in exchange for promising to release an alleged prisoner. Further, in November 2012, Sierra-Pereira, Nieves-Rivera, Ortiz-Cintron and Valles-Collazo illegally entered an apartment and stole approximately $30,000, which they believed was illegal lottery proceeds. The defendants frequently shared the proceeds they illegally obtained and used their power, authority and official positions as police officers to promote and protect their illegal activity. Among other things, the defendants used their police firearms, badges, patrol cars, tools, uniforms and other equipment to commit the crimes and concealed their illegal activity with fraudulently obtained court documents and falsified police paperwork to make it appear that they were engaged in legitimate police work. The case was investigated by the FBI’s San Juan Division. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Brian K. Kidd, Emily Rae Woods and Menaka Kalaskar of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Mariana E. Bauzá of the District of Puerto Rico.
corruption WASHINGTON—Alstom S.A. (Alstom), a French power and transportation company, pleaded guilty today and agreed to pay a $772,290,000 fine to resolve charges related to a widespread scheme involving tens of millions of dollars in bribes in countries around the world, including Indonesia, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and the Bahamas. Deputy Attorney General James M. Cole, Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, First Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael J. Gustafson of the District of Connecticut and FBI Executive Assistant Director Robert Anderson Jr. made the announcement. “Alstom’s corruption scheme was sustained over more than a decade and across several continents,” said Deputy Attorney General Cole. “It was astounding in its breadth, its brazenness and its worldwide consequences. And it is both my expectation—and my intention—that the comprehensive resolution we are announcing today will send an unmistakable message to other companies around the world: that this Department of Justice will be relentless in rooting out and punishing corruption to the fullest extent of the law, no matter how sweeping its scale or how daunting its prosecution.” “This case is emblematic of how the Department of Justice will investigate and prosecute FCPA cases—and other corporate crimes,” said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. “We encourage companies to maintain robust compliance programs, to voluntarily disclose and eradicate misconduct when it is detected, and to cooperate in the government’s investigation. But we will not wait for companies to act responsibly. With cooperation or without it, the department will identify criminal activity at corporations and investigate the conduct ourselves, using all of our resources, employing every law enforcement tool, and considering all possible actions, including charges against both corporations and individuals.” “Today’s historic resolution is an important reminder that our moral and legal mandate to stamp out corruption does not stop at any border, whether city, state or national,” said First Assistant U.S. Attorney Gustafson. “A significant part of this illicit work was unfortunately carried out from Alstom Power’s offices in Windsor, Connecticut. I am hopeful that this resolution, and in particular the deferred prosecution agreement with Alstom Power, will provide the company an opportunity to reshape its culture and restore its place as a respected corporate citizen.” “This investigation spanned years and crossed continents, as agents from the FBI Washington and New Haven field offices conducted interviews and collected evidence in every corner of the globe,” said FBI Executive Assistant Director Anderson. “The record dollar amount of the fine is a clear deterrent to companies who would engage in foreign bribery, but an even better deterrent is that we are sending executives who commit these crimes to prison.” Alstom pleaded guilty to a two-count criminal information filed today in the U.S. District Court for the District of Connecticut, charging the company with violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) by falsifying its books and records and failing to implement adequate internal controls. Alstom admitted its criminal conduct and agreed to pay a criminal penalty of $772,290,000. U.S. District Judge Janet B. Arterton of the District of Connecticut scheduled a sentencing hearing for June 23, 2015 at 3 p.m.. In addition, Alstom Network Schweiz AG, formerly Alstom Prom (Alstom Prom), Alstom’s Swiss subsidiary, pleaded guilty to a criminal information charging the company with conspiracy to violate the anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA. Alstom Power Inc. (Alstom Power) and Alstom Grid Inc. (Alstom Grid), two U.S. subsidiaries, both entered into deferred prosecution agreements, admitting that they conspired to violate the anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA. Alstom Power is headquartered in Windsor, Connecticut, and Alstom Grid, formerly Alstom T&D, was headquartered in New Jersey. According to the companies’ admissions, Alstom, Alstom Prom, Alstom Power and Alstom Grid, through various executives and employees, paid bribes to government officials and falsified books and records in connection with power, grid and transportation projects for state-owned entities around the world, including in Indonesia, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, the Bahamas and Taiwan. In Indonesia, for example, Alstom, Alstom Prom, and Alstom Power paid bribes to government officials—including a high-ranking member of the Indonesian Parliament and high-ranking members of Perusahaan Listrik Negara, the state-owned electricity company in Indonesia—in exchange for assistance in securing several contracts to provide power-related services valued at approximately $375 million. In total, Alstom paid more than $75 million to secure $4 billion in projects around the world, with a profit to the company of approximately $300 million. Alstom and its subsidiaries also attempted to conceal the bribery scheme by retaining consultants purportedly to provide consulting services on behalf of the companies, but who actually served as conduits for corrupt payments to the government officials. Internal Alstom documents refer to some of the consultants in code, including “Mr. Geneva,” “Mr. Paris,” “London,” “Quiet Man” and “Old Friend.” The plea agreement cites many factors considered by the department in reaching the appropriate resolution, including: Alstom’s failure to voluntarily disclose the misconduct even though it was aware of related misconduct at a U.S. subsidiary that previously resolved corruption charges with the department in connection with a power project in Italy; Alstom’s refusal to fully cooperate with the department’s investigation for several years; the breadth of the companies’ misconduct, which spanned many years, occurred in countries around the globe and in several business lines, and involved sophisticated schemes to bribe high-level government officials; Alstom’s lack of an effective compliance and ethics program at the time of the conduct; and Alstom’s prior criminal misconduct, including conduct that led to resolutions with various other governments and the World Bank. After the department publicly charged several Alstom executives, however, Alstom began providing thorough cooperation, including assisting the department’s prosecution of other companies and individuals. To date, the department has announced charges against five individuals, including four corporate executives of Alstom and its subsidiaries, for alleged corrupt conduct involving Alstom. Frederic Pierucci, Alstom’s former vice president of global boiler sales, pleaded guilty on July 29, 2013, to conspiring to violate the FCPA and a charge of violating the FCPA for his role in the Indonesia bribery scheme. David Rothschild, Alstom Power’s former vice president of regional sales, pleaded guilty on Nov. 2, 2012, to conspiracy to violate the FCPA. William Pomponi, Alstom Power’s former vice president of regional sales, pleaded guilty on July 17, 2014, to conspiracy to violate the FCPA. Lawrence Hoskins, Alstom’s former senior vice president for the Asia region, was charged in a second superseding indictment on July 30, 2013, and is pending trial in the District of Connecticut in June 2015. The charges against Hoskins are merely allegations, and he is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. The high-ranking member of Indonesian Parliament was also convicted in Indonesia of accepting bribes from Alstom, and is currently serving a three-year term of imprisonment. In connection with a corrupt scheme in Egypt, Asem Elgawhary, the general manager of an entity working on behalf of the Egyptian Electricity Holding Company, a state-owned electricity company, pleaded guilty on Dec. 4, 2014, in federal court in the District of Maryland to mail fraud, conspiring to launder money, and tax fraud for accepting kickbacks from Alstom and other companies. In his plea agreement, Elgawhary agreed to serve 42 months in prison and forfeit approximately $5.2 million in proceeds. This case is being investigated by the FBI’s Washington Field Office, with assistance from the FBI’s Meriden, Connecticut Resident Agency, and the FBI’s Newark and Baltimore Divisions. The department appreciates the significant cooperation provided by its law enforcement colleagues in Indonesia at the Komisi Pemberantasan Korupsi (Corruption Eradication Commission), the Office of the Attorney General in Switzerland, the Serious Fraud Office in the United Kingdom, as well as authorities in Germany, Italy, Singapore, Saudi Arabia, Cyprus and Taiwan. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant Chief Daniel S. Kahn of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney David E. Novick of the District of Connecticut, together with Assistant U.S. Attorney Zach Intrater of the District of New Jersey on the investigation of Alstom Grid and Assistant U.S. Attorney David I. Salem of the District of Maryland on the investigation of Asem Elgawhary. The Criminal Division’s Office of International Affairs also provided substantial assistance. Additional information about the Justice Department’s FCPA enforcement efforts can be found at www.justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.
corruption WASHINGTON—Alstom S.A. (Alstom), a French power and transportation company, pleaded guilty today and agreed to pay a $772,290,000 fine to resolve charges related to a widespread scheme involving tens of millions of dollars in bribes in countries around the world, including Indonesia, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and the Bahamas. Deputy Attorney General James M. Cole, Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, First Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael J. Gustafson of the District of Connecticut and FBI Executive Assistant Director Robert Anderson Jr. made the announcement. “Alstom’s corruption scheme was sustained over more than a decade and across several continents,” said Deputy Attorney General Cole. “It was astounding in its breadth, its brazenness and its worldwide consequences. And it is both my expectation—and my intention—that the comprehensive resolution we are announcing today will send an unmistakable message to other companies around the world: that this Department of Justice will be relentless in rooting out and punishing corruption to the fullest extent of the law, no matter how sweeping its scale or how daunting its prosecution.” “This case is emblematic of how the Department of Justice will investigate and prosecute FCPA cases—and other corporate crimes,” said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. “We encourage companies to maintain robust compliance programs, to voluntarily disclose and eradicate misconduct when it is detected, and to cooperate in the government’s investigation. But we will not wait for companies to act responsibly. With cooperation or without it, the department will identify criminal activity at corporations and investigate the conduct ourselves, using all of our resources, employing every law enforcement tool, and considering all possible actions, including charges against both corporations and individuals.” “Today’s historic resolution is an important reminder that our moral and legal mandate to stamp out corruption does not stop at any border, whether city, state or national,” said First Assistant U.S. Attorney Gustafson. “A significant part of this illicit work was unfortunately carried out from Alstom Power’s offices in Windsor, Connecticut. I am hopeful that this resolution, and in particular the deferred prosecution agreement with Alstom Power, will provide the company an opportunity to reshape its culture and restore its place as a respected corporate citizen.” “This investigation spanned years and crossed continents, as agents from the FBI Washington and New Haven field offices conducted interviews and collected evidence in every corner of the globe,” said FBI Executive Assistant Director Anderson. “The record dollar amount of the fine is a clear deterrent to companies who would engage in foreign bribery, but an even better deterrent is that we are sending executives who commit these crimes to prison.” Alstom pleaded guilty to a two-count criminal information filed today in the U.S. District Court for the District of Connecticut, charging the company with violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) by falsifying its books and records and failing to implement adequate internal controls. Alstom admitted its criminal conduct and agreed to pay a criminal penalty of $772,290,000. U.S. District Judge Janet B. Arterton of the District of Connecticut scheduled a sentencing hearing for June 23, 2015 at 3 p.m.. In addition, Alstom Network Schweiz AG, formerly Alstom Prom (Alstom Prom), Alstom’s Swiss subsidiary, pleaded guilty to a criminal information charging the company with conspiracy to violate the anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA. Alstom Power Inc. (Alstom Power) and Alstom Grid Inc. (Alstom Grid), two U.S. subsidiaries, both entered into deferred prosecution agreements, admitting that they conspired to violate the anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA. Alstom Power is headquartered in Windsor, Connecticut, and Alstom Grid, formerly Alstom T&D, was headquartered in New Jersey. According to the companies’ admissions, Alstom, Alstom Prom, Alstom Power and Alstom Grid, through various executives and employees, paid bribes to government officials and falsified books and records in connection with power, grid and transportation projects for state-owned entities around the world, including in Indonesia, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, the Bahamas and Taiwan. In Indonesia, for example, Alstom, Alstom Prom, and Alstom Power paid bribes to government officials—including a high-ranking member of the Indonesian Parliament and high-ranking members of Perusahaan Listrik Negara, the state-owned electricity company in Indonesia—in exchange for assistance in securing several contracts to provide power-related services valued at approximately $375 million. In total, Alstom paid more than $75 million to secure $4 billion in projects around the world, with a profit to the company of approximately $300 million. Alstom and its subsidiaries also attempted to conceal the bribery scheme by retaining consultants purportedly to provide consulting services on behalf of the companies, but who actually served as conduits for corrupt payments to the government officials. Internal Alstom documents refer to some of the consultants in code, including “Mr. Geneva,” “Mr. Paris,” “London,” “Quiet Man” and “Old Friend.” The plea agreement cites many factors considered by the department in reaching the appropriate resolution, including: Alstom’s failure to voluntarily disclose the misconduct even though it was aware of related misconduct at a U.S. subsidiary that previously resolved corruption charges with the department in connection with a power project in Italy; Alstom’s refusal to fully cooperate with the department’s investigation for several years; the breadth of the companies’ misconduct, which spanned many years, occurred in countries around the globe and in several business lines, and involved sophisticated schemes to bribe high-level government officials; Alstom’s lack of an effective compliance and ethics program at the time of the conduct; and Alstom’s prior criminal misconduct, including conduct that led to resolutions with various other governments and the World Bank. After the department publicly charged several Alstom executives, however, Alstom began providing thorough cooperation, including assisting the department’s prosecution of other companies and individuals. To date, the department has announced charges against five individuals, including four corporate executives of Alstom and its subsidiaries, for alleged corrupt conduct involving Alstom. Frederic Pierucci, Alstom’s former vice president of global boiler sales, pleaded guilty on July 29, 2013, to conspiring to violate the FCPA and a charge of violating the FCPA for his role in the Indonesia bribery scheme. David Rothschild, Alstom Power’s former vice president of regional sales, pleaded guilty on Nov. 2, 2012, to conspiracy to violate the FCPA. William Pomponi, Alstom Power’s former vice president of regional sales, pleaded guilty on July 17, 2014, to conspiracy to violate the FCPA. Lawrence Hoskins, Alstom’s former senior vice president for the Asia region, was charged in a second superseding indictment on July 30, 2013, and is pending trial in the District of Connecticut in June 2015. The charges against Hoskins are merely allegations, and he is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. The high-ranking member of Indonesian Parliament was also convicted in Indonesia of accepting bribes from Alstom, and is currently serving a three-year term of imprisonment. In connection with a corrupt scheme in Egypt, Asem Elgawhary, the general manager of an entity working on behalf of the Egyptian Electricity Holding Company, a state-owned electricity company, pleaded guilty on Dec. 4, 2014, in federal court in the District of Maryland to mail fraud, conspiring to launder money, and tax fraud for accepting kickbacks from Alstom and other companies. In his plea agreement, Elgawhary agreed to serve 42 months in prison and forfeit approximately $5.2 million in proceeds. This case is being investigated by the FBI’s Washington Field Office, with assistance from the FBI’s Meriden, Connecticut Resident Agency, and the FBI’s Newark and Baltimore Divisions. The department appreciates the significant cooperation provided by its law enforcement colleagues in Indonesia at the Komisi Pemberantasan Korupsi (Corruption Eradication Commission), the Office of the Attorney General in Switzerland, the Serious Fraud Office in the United Kingdom, as well as authorities in Germany, Italy, Singapore, Saudi Arabia, Cyprus and Taiwan. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant Chief Daniel S. Kahn of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney David E. Novick of the District of Connecticut, together with Assistant U.S. Attorney Zach Intrater of the District of New Jersey on the investigation of Alstom Grid and Assistant U.S. Attorney David I. Salem of the District of Maryland on the investigation of Asem Elgawhary. The Criminal Division’s Office of International Affairs also provided substantial assistance. Additional information about the Justice Department’s FCPA enforcement efforts can be found at www.justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa.
corruption HAMMOND, IN—The United States Attorney’s Office announced an indictment against Mary Elgin, the Calumet Township Trustee, alleging fraud, extortion, tax offenses and making false statements to investigating agents. Three other key employees in the trustee’s office, Ethel Shelton, Steven Hunter and Alex Wheeler, were also named in the fraud and extortion offenses. United States Attorney David Capp stated, “The essence of this indictment is the wrongful use of public employees and public facilities for private political gain.” The indictment alleges that Elgin and the other defendants conspired to commit wire fraud by utilizing employees of the trustee’s office, while these employees were being paid a salary from public funds, to work on Elgin’s fundraising and re-election efforts. In addition, the indictment alleges that these defendants conspired to deprive the citizens of Calumet Township of their right to the honest and faithful services of these defendants. Additionally, the indictment alleges these defendants also conspired to extort trustee office employees by forcing them to purchase political fundraising tickets. This indictment also includes four (4) additional charges against Mary Elgin alone. The indictment charges Elgin with: (1) two tax offenses for failing to file her federal tax returns for calendar year 2012 and 2013 despite having earned in excess of $100,000 in each of those years; (2) providing false information to the Federal Bureau of Investigation on issues material to the federal investigation; and (3) attempting to extort a vendor who sought to do business with the trustee’s office. Elgin, age 70 of Gary, Indiana, began serving as the Calumet Township Trustee in January 2003. She was re-elected to four year terms in 2006 and 2010. Shortly after taking office, the indictment alleges that Elgin installed individuals who directed her campaign into lucrative supervisory positions within the office, without regard to qualifications for those positions. Shelton, age 69 of Gary, Indiana, was hired as Elgin’s personal secretary. The indictment alleges that Shelton, while on trustee time, collected money from employees from the sale of political fundraising tickets and kept detailed lists of which employees did or did not purchase the fundraising tickets. Hunter, age 48 of Chicago, Illinois, Elgin’s son, was hired as Deputy of Information Systems and Technology. The indictment alleges that Hunter, on trustee time, distributed fundraising tickets and collected money from employees from the sale of political fundraising tickets. Wheeler, age 64 of Gary, Indiana, was Elgin’s co-campaign manager and was hired as the Deputy of Job Search Works. The indictment alleges that Wheeler, on trustee time, distributed political fundraising tickets to trustee employees. This indictment was the result of an extensive investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Internal Revenue Service and Indiana State Police. This case has been assigned to and will be prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Philip Benson. United States Attorney Capp concluded by stating, “We have a very active and experienced public corruption team of agents and Assistant United States Attorneys. Our efforts are ongoing. We will continue to investigate allegations of wrongdoing by public officials, including tax offenses and the wrongful use of public employees for private gain.” Citizens who have any information about any perceived wrongdoing are urged to call the Federal Bureau of Investigation at (219) 769-3719. All calls will be treated confidentially. It is expected that Elgin and the other defendants will appear in federal court on Monday, December 22, 2014 for their initial appearance. The United States Attorney’s Office emphasized that an Indictment is merely an allegation and not proof of guilt. All persons charged are presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty in court. If convicted in court, any specific sentence to be imposed will be determined by the judge after a consideration of the federal sentencing statutes and federal sentencing guidelines.
corruption EL DORADO, AR—Conner Eldridge, United States Attorney for the Western District of Arkansas announced today that James Michael Hesterly, age 50, of Camden, Arkansas, was sentenced today to 33 months in prison and one year of supervised release on one count of Bribery Concerning a Program Receiving Federal Funds. Hesterly and Harry Clemons Jr., age 39 of Bearden, Arkansas were indicted for a scheme to award a Federal Emergency Management Agency (“FEMA”) disaster-relief contract to Clemons by rigging the bidding process in return for a contribution to Hesterly’s 2010 reelection campaign for Ouachita County Judge. Hesterly had been the county judge of Ouachita County Arkansas for the past 10 years. Harry Clemons is the owner and operator of Clemons Construction. A federal grand jury handed down the indictments in Fort Smith on January 17, 2013. The Honorable Susan O. Hickey presided over the sentencing hearing in The United States District Court in El Dorado. U.S. Attorney Eldridge commented, “With today’s sentence a strong message has been sent regarding our office’s continuing commitment to aggressively pursue individuals who violate the public’s trust through their own greed and complete abdication of the duties they were sworn to uphold. This type of conduct by a public official offends taxpayers and citizens as well as all of the other public officials who are truly dedicated to their service.” “Mr. Hesterly held a position of trust and responsibility to act appropriately in order to maintain a fair and competitive bidding process,” stated David T. Resch, Special Agent in Charge of the Little Rock FBI, “Today’s sentencing demonstrates the United States Attorney’s Office and the FBI are committed to pursuing those who choose to use their official position for personal gain. The FBI would like to thank and commend Jeff Davis, a citizen of Ouachita County, who voluntarily agreed to cooperate in this investigation and who assisted the FBI in obtaining important evidence which lead to the convictions in this case.” According to documents filed in court, beginning in March 2010, Hesterly proposed awarding Clemons a FEMA funded contract to clean up storm debris in Ouachita County without competitive bidding in exchange for a payment to Hesterly for his reelection campaign. The debris was the product of two tornados that struck the county in October of 2009. In furtherance of this conspiracy, Clemons arranged for two other bidders to submit intentionally inflated bids to Hesterly through fax. Clemons then met with Hesterly at his office and submitted a bid on behalf of himself and another company for the contract in the amount of $120,730, a total amount below the inflated bids. Hesterly accepted Clemons’s bid, and, on April 8, 2010, applied for federal funds from FEMA to help Ouachita County pay for the contract. Hesterly represented to FEMA that Clemons was the lowest bidder among the three bids that he had received. After FEMA approved and obligated the request, Hesterly requested that the contract price be increased by $4,000 representing that the increase was necessary to cover increased costs to Clemons for disposing of the debri. FEMA also approved that request, but the $4,000 was ultimately paid to Hesterly by Clemons as bribe money solicited by Hesterly for awarding the contract to Clemons. In order to promote open competition, federal regulations require that the contract be awarded through a sealed bidding process and in compliance with all applicable state law. Hesterly corrupted the bidding process to ensure that the contract would be awarded to Clemons and not through a legitimate competitive bidding process. In August 2010, Clemons submitted documentation to Hesterly stating that all work on the contract had been complete and requested a payment of $69,865 for Clemons Construction. That same month, Hesterly certified to the state of Arkansas and FEMA that the work set forth in the contract had been completed. On October 13, 2010, Hesterly signed an order allowing Clemons’s claim for payment to go through. Later that month, Clemons received a check from Ouachita County for $69,865. Clemons then paid the $4,000 to Hesterly. Hesterly pleaded guilty to the offense on June 11, 2014. Clemons was sentenced November 21, 2014 to two years of probation with a condition of home confinement with electronic monitoring for the first four months, a $2,500 fine, and ordered to pay $4,000 restitution jointly and severally with Hesterly. This case was investigated by the FBI. United States Attorney Conner Eldridge and Assistant United States Attorney Kenneth Elser represented the United States.
corruption ALBANY, NY—CHARLES E. FULLER, age 46, of Corinth, New York, was sentenced today by Chief United States District Court Judge Gary L. Sharpe to five years in prison for attempting to aid and abet the possession with intent to distribute a controlled substance, announced United States Attorney Richard S. Hartunian and Andrew W. Vale, Special Agent-in-Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Albany Division. As Fuller admitted during his August 20, 2014 guilty plea, in February of 2014, while he was employed as a Saratoga County Deputy Sheriff, he accepted a total of $5,000 from a confidential source supervised by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (“FBI”) as payment for transporting the confidential source while the source was carrying what Fuller believed to be cocaine. The source actually had imitation cocaine. The defendant made two trips from Albany to Warren County: one on February 19, 2014 and one on February 27, 2014. During the first trip, the defendant drove the source with what he believed to be 250 grams of cocaine in return for $1,000, and during the second trip, the defendant transported the source with what he believed to be one kilogram of cocaine in return for $4,000. This prosecution resulted from an investigation conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Daniel Hanlon.
corruption Robert Davis, a member and former President of the Highland Park School Board, was sentenced today to 18 months’ imprisonment after having pleaded guilty to unlawful conversion of funds belonging to the school district and to filing a false federal income tax return, U.S. Attorney Barbara McQuade announced today. Davis will also be ordered to pay full restitution to the Highland Park School District in an amount to be determined at a later hearing. U.S. District Judge Arthur J. Tarnow imposed sentence on Davis, 34, of Highland Park. McQuade was joined in the announcement by Paul M. Abbate, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and Jarod Koopman, Acting Special Agent in Charge of the Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation. Information provided to the court at the guilty plea hearing showed that from 2007 through 2010, Davis used his authority as a member of the school board to cause the school district to issue checks to companies controlled by associates of Davis. At Davis’s direction, those companies then issued checks totaling almost $200,000 to another entity controlled by Davis, Citizens United to Save Highland Park Schools. Davis then used those funds for personal expenses. In addition, Davis knowingly and intentionally failed to report the income he received on his federal income tax returns. United States Attorney McQuade stated, “Any betrayal of the public trust is deplorable, but stealing from schools is the most reprehensible kind of corruption because it robs children of educational opportunities.” The case was investigated by the FBI and IRS CI. The case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Sheldon N. Light and Dawn N. Ison, and former AUSA Pamela Thompson.
corruption SANTA ANA, CA—An attorney who engaged in a conspiracy that allowed the owner of a chain of marijuana stores to hide some of his income has pleaded guilty to federal financial offenses. Guilty pleas by Richard C. Brizendine, 59, of Long Beach, were entered Monday by United States District Judge James V. Selna. Monday’s action concludes proceedings in which Brizendine pleaded guilty to two counts: money laundering and conspiracy to structure cash deposits to avoid federal reporting requirements. Brizendine was an attorney for John Melvin Walker, who operated marijuana stores across Los Angeles and Orange counties and generated approximately $25 million in income over a six-year period. Brizendine conspired with Walker and others to accept cash from the marijuana operation and invest the funds into several corporations. According to court documents, Brizendine agreed to accept more than $10,000 in cash and then make smaller deposits into different bank accounts so as to not trigger federal requirements that financial institutions report currency transactions of more than $10,000 (this process is called structuring cash transactions). By pleading guilty, Brizendine specifically admitted that he structured approximately $389,700 for Walker. The case against Brizendine was announced today after Judge Selna unsealed documents associated with the case. Last year, Walker was sentenced to nearly 22 years in federal prison for operating a chain of marijuana and failing to reporter millions of dollars in revenues was on his taxes (see: http://www.justice.gov/usao/cac/Pressroom/2013/096.html). Judge Selna is scheduled to sentence Brizendine on May 4, 2015. At that time, Brizendine will face a statutory maximum sentence of 10 years in federal prison. Until that time, he will remain free on a $500,000 bond. The investigation of Brizendine and the marijuana operation was conducted by the Orange County Sheriff’s Department; the Drug Enforcement Administration; the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; IRS-Criminal Investigation; the California Board of Equalization; the Orange County District Attorney’s Office; and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
corruption ALBUQUERQUE—The former Executive Director of the Gallup Housing Authority and his accomplice were sentenced this morning to federal prison for their convictions arising out of a scheme to defraud the United States and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) of more than $100,000.00. Danny Garcia, 39, formerly of Gallup, N.M., and now residing in Snowflake, Ariz., was sentenced to 20 months in prison followed by three years of supervised release. His co-defendant, Michael Virruso, 62, of Gallup, N.M., was sentenced to 18 months in prison followed by three years of supervised release. Garcia also was ordered to pay $105,000.00 in restitution, including $75,000.00 that must be paid jointly by Garcia and Virruso. The sentences were announced by U.S. Attorney Damon P. Martinez, Phyllis Robinson, Special Agent in Charge of Region 6, HUD Office of Inspector General, and Carol K.O. Lee, Special Agent in Charge of the Albuquerque Division of the FBI. Garcia and Virruso were indicted in Aug. 2013, on one count of conspiracy and eight counts of making false claims against the United States. Garcia also was charged with three counts of theft from programs receiving federal funds. According to the indictment, between June 2010 and Oct. 2012, Garcia and Virruso engaged in a scheme to steal federal funds provided by HUD to the Gallup Housing Authority (GHA). HUD is a federal agency whose core mission is to make quality, affordable housing accessible to all Americans. HUD oversees and funds programs designed to provide affordable housing for low-income Americans. One such program, the Capital Fund Program (CFP), provides grants to public housing agencies for the purpose of making improvements to public housing developments. GHA is a public housing agency that receives approximately $400,000.00 in CFP grants each year and Garcia was the Executive Director of GHA at the time of the offenses charged in the indictment. As Executive Director of GHA, Garcia was responsible for selecting contractors to carry out GHA projects, reviewing and approving invoices payable by GHA, and requesting HUD funds to pay for GHA projects. According to the indictment, in summer 2010, Garcia awarded a contract to remove and replace sidewalks in a GHA housing development to a construction company that employed Virruso and appointed Virruso to act as safety inspector. While working on the project, Virruso submitted invoices to GHA for work performed by the company and for which the company received payment. Garcia used GHA funds to pay Virruso’s invoices and then obtained reimbursement from HUD’s CFP. Virruso and Garcia then formed a company together, MCL Construction. Virruso submitted a fraudulent invoice from MCL to Garcia, who approved the invoice for payment from HUD funds, and both men collected a share of the proceeds. Virruso fraudulently received more than $75,000.00 through this scheme. In addition, Garcia embezzled more than $15,000.00 of HUD funds by misusing a GHA debit card. On July 8, 2014, both men entered guilty pleas to Counts 1 and 9 of the indictment charging them with conspiracy to commit false claims against the United States and false claims against the United States. Garcia also pleaded guilty to Count 10 of the indictment charging him with theft from a program receiving federal funds. In their respective plea agreements, Garcia and Virruso each admitted participating in the unlawful scheme described in the indictment. Garcia also admitted embezzling GHA funds by making personal purchases exceeding $5,000.00 per year using a debit card linked to a GHA bank account. “The sentencing today of Danny Garcia and Michael Virruso should send a strong message to anyone who serves in a position of public trust that abuses for the purpose of personal enrichment will be vigorously investigated to ensure they are brought to justice and debarred from future participation in government programs,” said Phyllis G. Robinson, Special Agent in Charge, Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. U.S. Attorney Damon P. Martinez commended Region 6, HUD Office of Inspector General and the Albuquerque Division of the FBI, who investigated the case, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeremy Peña, who prosecuted the case.
corruption GULFPORT, MS—Harrison County Supervisor Kim Savant, 65, of Gulfport, pled guilty today in U.S. District Court to conspiracy to commit bribery in connection with his role as a board member of the Harrison County Utility Authority, announced U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis, FBI Special Agent in Charge Donald Alway, and Acting Special Agent in Charge Jerome R. McDuffie with IRS Criminal Investigation. A criminal Bill of Information was filed against Savant on November 14, 2014, charging him with conspiracy to commit bribery, which carries a maximum sentence of five years in prison, a $250,000.00 fine, and up to three years of supervised release. He will be sentenced by U.S. District Judge Sul Ozerden on March 26, 2015 at 9:00 a.m. From January, 2011, through January, 2013, Savant was a Supervisor for Harrison County, Mississippi, and was a member of the board of the Harrison County Utility Authority (“HCUA”). The HCUA was responsible for managing water, wastewater, storm water and solid waste services in Harrison County, among other things. During this period of time, Savant conspired with another person to commit bribery, that is, Savant performed official actions such as voting for the awarding of HCUA contracts, payments, emergency work and other work worth millions of dollars to a particular company in exchange for Savant receiving $1,500.00 cash per month from a representative of that company. “When public officials turn to financial gain in exchange for official acts, we will prosecute them to the fullest extent of the law,” said U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis. “Public corruption, particularly among our elected officials, undermines the public’s confidence in our system of government. I thank the Assistant U.S. Attorneys, FBI, and IRS—Criminal Investigation for their efforts in the investigation and prosecution of this case.” Jerome R. McDuffie, Acting Special Agent in Charge, IRS – Criminal Investigation, stated: “All those entrusted to serve the public, whether appointed or elected, should be held to the very highest standards of fiscal responsibility and integrity. It is vitally important that federal funds go toward their intended use and the execution of the mission-critical business. IRS—Criminal Investigation will continue to work with our law enforcement partners in the investigation and potential prosecution of individuals involved in program fraud and the misuse of public monies.” This case was investigated by the FBI and the IRS—Criminal Investigation. Assistant U.S. Attorney Mike Hurst is prosecuting the case.
corruption BALTIMORE, MD—Barry Stephen Robinson, age 65, of Accokeek, Maryland, pleaded guilty today to two counts of bribery, and one count of money laundering, in connection with a bribery scheme perpetrated earlier this year while he was Chief of the Division of Transit and Marine Services of the Baltimore City Department of Transportation. The guilty plea was announced by U.S. Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Baltimore City Inspector General Robert H. Pearre, Jr.; and Special Agent in Charge Thomas J. Kelly of the Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation, Washington, D.C. Field Office. “Barry Stephen Robinson took a $20,000 bribe to cancel a $60,000 debt owed to Baltimore City, and a $70,000 bribe to allow the theft of city property worth $250,000,” said U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein. “This sort of corruption can occur when dishonest people are trusted to handle valuable government property.” “The amount of money Barry Robinson admitted to accepting demonstrates his willingness to line his own pockets in exchange for his influence, and his actions are why many people distrust the government. Any public servant who puts a price on his or her position doesn’t have the greater good in mind and they should be held accountable,” said Steve Vogt, Special Agent in Charge of the Baltimore Division of the FBI. “Using his official position and the resources of Baltimore City, Robinson abused the trust placed in him in order to personally enrich himself,” said Thomas J. Kelly, Special Agent in Charge, IRS Criminal Investigation, Washington D.C. Field Office. “IRS-Criminal Investigation stands committed to weed out individuals, such as Robinson, who take the path to financial enhancement through greed and corruption at the expense of those they serve.” Barry Robinson was Chief of the Division of Transit and Marine Services of the Baltimore City Department of Transportation and supervised Baltimore City’s “Circulator” and “Water Taxi” programs. He had authority to approve contracts with advertisers and vendors and to purchase and pay for goods and services. In the spring of 2013, Robinson received a check for $40,000 payable to the Baltimore City Director of Finance, in payment for advertising on Circulator buses. Robinson allegedly returned the check and proposed that for $20,000 in cash, he would cancel the $40,000 debt to the city and provide written documentation that it had been paid. The debtor declined the offer at that time. In January 2014, Robinson renewed his offer to extinguish the debt to the City of Baltimore. This time, he offered to cancel $60,000 of debt in return for $20,000 in cash. From January 23 to March 11, 2014, Robinson received four cash payments of $5,000 each. In return, Robinson provided a signed letter on Baltimore City letterhead falsely stating that the $60,000 debt had been paid. Robinson also admitted that he took a $70,000 bribe to sell unused city bus shelters. In 2011, Robinson arranged for Baltimore City to purchase 13 bus shelters from a Canadian company for $249,290. On multiple occasions from May 2013 to March 2014, Robinson said since the city did not keep track of the shelters, he planned to sell them for his personal benefit. On April 9, 2014, Robinson accepted $70,000, in return for the city’s bus shelters. Seeking to disguise the source of the bribery proceeds, Robinson deposited the cash bribe payments he received into two bank accounts in the name of another person, and used a portion of the proceeds to install carpeting, televisions and a range hood in his home. Robinson faces a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison for money laundering and 10 years in prison on each of two bribery counts. Chief U.S. District Judge Catherine C. Blake has scheduled sentencing for March 27, 2015, at 10:00 a.m. U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI, the Baltimore City Office of Inspector General and IRS-Criminal Investigation, for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant U.S. Attorney Barbara S. Sale, who is prosecuting the case.
corruption After a 12-day trial, a federal jury convicted former North Miami Mayor Marie Lucie Tondreau, a/k/a “Lucie Tondreau,” 54, for her recruitment of straw buyers and other conduct in an $8,000,000 mortgage fraud scheme. Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office, and Drew J. Breakspear, Commissioner, Florida Office of Financial Regulation, made the announcement. As shown at trial, between December 2005 and May 2008, co-defendant Karl Oreste, 56, of Miramar, Florida, president of KMC Mortgage Corporation of Florida (KMC Mortgage), a mortgage lending business in North Miami Beach, identified residential properties in South Florida that were for sale. Oreste and Tondreau, who at the time was a community activist, hosted several radio show programs in the South Florida area in which they advertised the services offered by KMC Mortgage. Oreste and Tondreau recruited and paid some of the listeners who responded to those advertisements, as well as other individuals, to pose as borrowers and purchase properties identified by Oreste. Oreste and co-defendant Okechukwu Josiah Odunna, a/k/a “O.J. Odunna,” 49, of Lauderdale Lakes, Florida, as well as other co-conspirators, prepared or caused to be prepared loan applications on behalf of straw borrowers recruited by Oreste and Tondreau. Odunna was an attorney previously licensed to practice law in Florida, and president of O.J. Odunna, P.A. and Direct Title and Escrow Services (Direct Title). These loan applications included false information relating to employment, wages, assets and intent to make the property being purchased a primary residence. The loan applications and documents were submitted by co-conspirators to various mortgage lenders throughout the United States. Once the loan applications were approved, the lenders wired funds to O.J. Odunna, P.A., Direct Title or other title companies for closing. In some instances Oreste, Odunna and other co-conspirators created and submitted duplicate HUD-1 Settlement Statement Forms, which grossly inflated the true purchase price of the properties. HUD-1 Settlement Statements also falsely and fraudulently represented to the mortgage lenders that the straw borrowers had met their down payment and cash to close obligations, when, in fact, the straw borrowers had never made any such payments. At closing, a portion of loan proceeds were disbursed to Oreste through his corporation, JR Investment and Mortgage Corporation, or other bank accounts controlled by him. In some instances, a portion of the loan proceeds was diverted to O.J. Odunna, P.A. or Direct Title accounts. Oreste disbursed some of the proceeds he received to pay Tondreau and other, as well as to pay the straw borrowers. Oreste also transferred a substantial portion of the funds to bank accounts of LTO Investment Corporation, a corporation controlled by Tondreau. Tondreau used funds deposited in LTO Investment Corporation’s bank accounts to make payments on the falsely and fraudulently obtained mortgages in order to maintain the loans, and to conceal and further the fraud. She also used a portion of the funds deposited into LTO Investment Corporation’s bank accounts for her own personal use and benefit. Finally, Tondreau also rented out the properties and collected rent for her own personal use and to further the conspiracy. As further demonstrated at trial, over the course of the mortgage fraud scheme, Tondreau was involved in obtaining 13 fraudulent loans, for which the lenders have suffered losses in the amount of approximately $8,000,000.00. Tondreau received in excess of $300,000 into a business account controlled by her, and in excess of $100,000 into her personal bank accounts. “Today’s conviction against Marie Lucie Tondreau is a success in our continuing efforts to fight mortgage fraud that jeopardizes our nation’s financial institutions,” said U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer. “Tondreau abused her prominence in the community to perpetrate the $8,000,000 mortgage fraud scheme, which thanks to the efforts of my Office’s prosecutors and federal and state law enforcement we successfully unraveled. We will continue to investigate and prosecute individuals who engage in deceptive and fraudulent behavior, fueled by greed.” “Exploiting the trust of Floridians is atrocious,” said OFR Commissioner Drew J. Breakspear. “We thank the FBI and the United States Attorney’s Office of the Southern District of Florida for their hard work, which has led to this positive outcome. The Florida Office of Financial Regulation remains dedicated to thoroughly investigating those who prey upon others for illegal financial gain.” Tondreau, who was remanded into custody, is scheduled to be sentenced on March 20, 2015, at 8:30 a.m., before U.S. District Judge Robert N. Scola, Jr. She faces a maximum term of 30 years in prison. Oreste previously pled guilty to conspiracy to commit wire fraud and is scheduled to be sentenced on January 12, 2015, at 8:30 a.m., before Judge Scola. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI and Florida’s Office of Financial Regulation. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Lois Foster-Steers and Gera R. Peoples. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at http://www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Southern District of Florida at http://www.flsd.uscourts.gov or on http://pacer.flsd.uscourts.gov.
corruption PIKEVILLE, KY—The former Mayor of Martin, Ky., has been sentenced to 90 months in federal prison for various crimes including civil rights offenses and identity theft. On Monday, U.S. District Judge Amul Thapar sentenced the former mayor, Ruth Thomasine Robinson, 70, for conspiracy to violate civil rights, conspiracy to defraud the Social Security Administration, federal program fraud, aggravated identity theft and vote buying. Judge Thapar also sentenced Robinson’s husband, James “Red” Robinson, 64, to 40 months in prison for vote buying. Under federal law, the Robinsons must serve at least 85 percent of their respective prison sentences. Thomasine Robinson was convicted in May of the vote buying and civil rights violations. According to evidence at the trial, Thomasine Robinson and her co-conspirators intimidated poor and disabled citizens in order to gain their votes during Robinson’s 2012 campaign for re-election. For instance, members of the conspiracy directed residents of public housing to vote by absentee ballot under the supervision of Thomasine Robinson or another member of the conspiracy. The conspirators also targeted residents of private housing owned and leased by Thomasine Robinson. Trial testimony established that the conspirators completed absentee ballots, marking their choice of candidates, and instructing the voters to sign the pre-marked ballots. Voters who complied by voting for Thomasine Robinson received promises of better living arrangements and other considerations. Voters who did not comply faced eviction or the loss of priority for public housing. In addition, the evidence established that the defendants offered to pay several voters to vote for Thomasine Robinson. Thomasine Robinson was convicted in February of the identity theft and fraud offenses. Evidence at the trial established that from 2006 until January 2013, Ginger Marie Halbert, a co-conspirator, was purportedly working on a volunteer basis with Thomasine Robinson; in reality, Halbert was secretly being paid with federal funds. The funds used to pay Halbert were intended for the Martin Community Center and the Martin Housing Authority. Some of the misdirected money was supposed to fund an after school program for city children. To conceal the scheme, the defendants allegedly arranged for the checks to be made payable to Halbert’s son. Kerry B. Harvey, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky; Howard S. Marshall, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Guy Fallen, Special Agent in Charge, Social Security Administration, Office of the Investigator General, Office of Investigations; and Jack Conway, Attorney General of Kentucky, jointly made the announcement today. The investigation was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Social Security Administration, and the Kentucky Attorney General’s Office. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Ken Taylor and Andy Boone prosecuted this case on behalf of the federal government.
corruption WASHINGTON—A police officer employed by the City of Salem, Virginia, and assigned to a U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) task force pleaded guilty today for soliciting and receiving sexual favors from a cooperating defendant in exchange for agreeing to recommend a favorable sentence to a federal prosecutor on the defendant’s behalf. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, Special Agent in Charge Adam S. Lee of the FBI’s Richmond Division and Special Agent in Charge Michael Tompkins of the Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General’s Washington Field Office made the announcement. “Kevin Moore took a solemn oath to protect and serve the public, but then abused the authority of his badge by sexually exploiting a federal witness,” said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. “When Moore crossed the line from enforcing the law to breaking it, his actions cast an unfortunate shadow over the selfless and courageous work of his fellow officers. Working with our law enforcement partners, the Department of Justice will expose and prosecute all such abuses of authority, in order to restore and maintain the public’s trust.” “Cases involving corruption of law enforcement officials are among the FBI’s highest priority criminal investigations. The public should expect integrity from those sworn to uphold the law. Mr. Moore’s breach of his sworn duty in this case is particularly pernicious as he exploited his victims in the most personal way. The Richmond Division of the FBI continues to have confidence in the City of Salem Police Department. We value our partnership with the Department and the proud men and women who serve their community with distinction everyday,” said Special Agent in Charge Lee. “The OIG will aggressively investigate with its law enforcement partners allegations of misconduct among Department employees, contractors, and deputized task force officers to help ensure the Department of Justice performs its critical work with integrity,” said Special Agent in Charge Tompkins. Kevin C. Moore, 42, of Roanoke, Virginia, was a Salem Police Department officer and was assigned to the DEA task force in Roanoke, Virginia. According to his plea agreement and accompanying statement of facts, between June and September 2014, Moore informed a female cooperating defendant that he was in a position to help her with her pending federal methamphetamine trafficking case. In August 2014, for example, in a series of text messages with the cooperating defendant, Moore made clear that he could recommend a favorable sentence to the prosecutor on the cooperating defendant’s behalf in exchange for sexual favors. Moore then convinced the cooperating defendant to go for a ride in his official vehicle where she performed a sexual act with Moore. As part of his guilty plea, Moore admitted to engaging in similar conduct with two other female cooperating witnesses in federal drug investigations dating back to 2009. According to the statement of facts, Moore falsely informed these witnesses that he had convinced federal prosecutors not to charge them with federal criminal offenses that would carry significant prison sentences. Moore then solicited and received sexual favors from the witnesses in exchange for his purported assistance. Moore pleaded guilty to a one-count information charging him with bribery before Chief U.S. District Judge Glen E. Conrad of the Western District of Virginia. In cooperation with the City of Salem Police Department and DEA, Moore was arrested on Oct. 10, 2014, without incident, after being charged by complaint, and was suspended from the police department and DEA task force the same day. His sentencing is scheduled for February 2, 2015. This case was investigated by the FBI and the Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General, and is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Charles R. Walsh and Robert J. Heberle of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section.
corruption ATLANTA—Kenneth Campbell, a/k/a “Scrilla,” Corey Thomas, a/k/a “Lil Corey,” Adrian Bridges, Juarez Johnson, Justin Cody, a/k/a “Decatur Slim,” and Aeshia Wilmore have been sentenced for their roles in a $1 million fraudulent income tax refund scheme. “Identity theft unfortunately has become the crime of choice given the availability or stolen or lost personal information,” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. “With each offense, an innocent person’s financial livelihood is put at risk. We will continue to investigate and prosecute these crimes and will seek sentences that deter and punish this conduct.” “Identity thieves are becoming more devious, creative, and conniving,” stated Veronica F. Hyman-Pillot, Special Agent in Charge, IRS-Criminal Investigation. “These defendants perpetuated an elaborate scheme driven by insatiable greed and a blatant disregard for the tremendous damage inflicted on innocent victims. These criminals must be and will continue to be pursued in order to obtain justice for the victims as well as justice for our nation.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated: “The sentencing of these individuals concludes an extensive criminal investigation that now holds those involved with victimizing so many accountable for their actions. The FBI will continue to work with its law enforcement partners in aggressively addressing these fraudulent tax refund schemes that not only victimize the U.S. Government but also those individuals whose identities have been stolen.” According to Paul Bowman, Area Special Agent in Charge of the United States Postal Service, Office of Inspector General, “Adrian Bridges reflects just a very small percentage of employees who failed to uphold the trust and integrity placed in them. The U.S. Postal Service, Office of Inspector General takes these cases very serious and investigates them to the fullest extent of the law. The general public should be reminded that the majority of postal employees remain committed to exhibiting the highest moral character and trust that our customers expect and deserve.” According to United States Attorney Yates, the charges and other information presented in court: From as early as July 2012 to October 2013, the defendants participated in a scheme to defraud the United States Department of the Treasury and the Michigan Department of Revenue by filing hundreds of fraudulent income tax returns using stolen identities. This type of scheme is commonly called stolen identity refund fraud. Campbell and Thomas used stolen personal identification information of hundreds of victims, along with fake wage and withholding information, to prepare numerous fraudulent tax returns, claiming over $400,000 in tax refunds. After the refunds were processed, Campbell and Thomas had the refunds applied to blank prepaid debit cards that they later used for their own benefit. In order to increase the number of fraudulent tax refunds that they could receive at one time, Campbell and Thomas had the prepaid debit cards mailed to different addresses throughout the Atlanta area. Many of these addresses were associated with an apartment complex in Cobb County, Ga., where Bridges served as a mail carrier for the United States Postal Service. Working at the direction of Campbell, Bridges would retrieve the debit cards from the United States mail and deliver them to Campbell. During the course of the scheme, Campbell recruited Johnson, then an employee of the Fulton County Ga., Superior Court Clerk’s Office, to provide him with stolen identity information. In September 2013, Johnson accessed county databases on several occasions to obtain identity information for dozens of people who had been booked into the Fulton County Ga., Jail. Johnson later provided this identity information to Campbell. Campbell also worked with other individuals to file fraudulent federal and state tax returns, including Justin Cody, a/k/a “Decatur Slim.” In a related case, Cody and his wife, Aeshia Wilmore, were charged for their involvement in a scheme similar to Campbell’s where they claimed over $600,000 in fraudulent tax refunds. The defendants were convicted and sentenced by United States District Judge Steve C. Jones, as described below: Kenneth Campbell, a/k/a “Scrilla,” 31, of Atlanta, Ga., was convicted on charges of conspiracy to commit mail fraud and aggravated identity theft on August 26, 2014, after he pleaded guilty.  On November 17, 2014, Campbell was sentenced to serve seven years and three months in federal prison and ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $139,610.  Corey Thomas, a/k/a “Lil Corey,” 28, of Atlanta, Ga., was convicted on charges of conspiracy to commit mail fraud and aggravated identity theft on August 26, 2014, after he pleaded guilty.  On November 20, 2014, Thomas was sentenced to serve five years and one month in federal prison and ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $114,754.  Adrian Bridges, 43, of Mableton, Ga., was convicted on charges of conspiracy to commit mail fraud and mail theft on August 26, 2014, after he pleaded guilty.  On December 16, 2014, Bridges was sentenced to serve four years in federal prison, three years of supervised release, and ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $81,878.  Juarez Johnson, 30, of Atlanta, Ga., was convicted of identity theft on May 15, 2014, after he pleaded guilty.  On July 30, 2014, Johnson was sentenced to serve one year of probation. Justin Cody, a/k/a “Decatur Slim,” 33, of Atlanta, Ga., was convicted on charges of theft of government funds and aggravated identity theft on November 22, 2013, after he pleaded guilty.  On April 28, 2014, Cody was sentenced to serve seven years and three months in federal prison and ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $150,329. Aeshia Wilmore, 26, of Atlanta, Ga., was convicted of theft of government funds on November 22, 2013, after she pleaded guilty.  On April 28, 2014, Wilmore was sentenced to serve two years in federal prison and ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $150,329. This case is being investigated by the Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the United States Postal Service Office of the Inspector General. Assistant United States Attorney Nekia S. Hackworth prosecuted the case. For further information, please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Presse-mails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the home page for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Atlanta Division is http://www.justice.gov/usao/gan/.
corruption SAN JOSE, CA—John Nyunt pleaded guilty in federal court today, to possession of stolen firearms, announced United States Attorney Melinda Haag and FBI Special Agent in Charge David J. Johnson. Nyunt was a commander at the Pacific Grove Police Department (PGPD) and an instructor at the former police academy at the Monterey Peninsula College (MPC). In pleading guilty, Nyunt admitted to stealing assault rifles, shotguns, and semi-automatic pistols that the MPC was seeking to divest after its decision to close the police academy. The MPC asked Nyunt if the PGPD would accept them as a donation. Knowing that the PGPD did not want the firearms, Nyunt signed a memorandum of understanding with the MPC that falsely stated he was accepting the firearms on PGPD’s behalf, even though he was not authorized to execute such an agreement nor accept the firearms. After the MPC relinquished possession of the firearms to Nyunt in or about August of 2009, he consigned most of them, including 27 Glock semi-automatic pistols and 5 Smith & Wesson semi-automatic pistols, to a firearms dealer, who over time sold them on Nyunt’s behalf, paying Nyunt the proceeds from those sales minus his commission. Nyunt took back five of the Glocks and personally sold or gave them to other people. In this manner Nyunt maintained possession and control of some or all of the firearms he stole from the MPC until in or about November of 2012, when he had disposed of the last of the guns. Nyunt, 52, was charged by information on Dec. 11, 2014 with a violation of 18 U.S.C. § 922(j). This is Nyunt’s second pending federal case. Earlier this year, on May 13, 2014, Nyunt pleaded guilty in case no. CR-14-00235-BLF to extortion and wire fraud charges that, like the charges to which he pleaded guilty today, were based on his conduct while commander at the PGPD. Nyunt’s consolidated sentencing hearing for both cases is scheduled for April 7, 2015, at 9:00 a.m., before the Honorable Beth L. Freeman, United States District Court Judge, in San Jose. The maximum statutory penalty for a violation of 18 U.S.C. § 922(j) is ten years’ imprisonment and a fine of $250,000, plus restitution. Pursuant to the binding plea agreement, if accepted by the court, the parties have agreed that the defendant should be sentenced to thirty months’ imprisonment, to run concurrent with his sentence in case no. CR-00235-BLF. However, any sentence will be imposed by the court only after consideration of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and the federal statute governing the imposition of a sentence, 18 U.S.C. § 3553. Philip A. Guentert is the Assistant U.S. Attorney who is prosecuting the case with the assistance of Elise Etter. The prosecution is the result of an investigation by the FBI.
corruption WASHINGTON—A former Special Agent in Charge of the Department of Homeland Security—Office of Inspector General (DHS-OIG) was sentenced to 37 months in prison today for a scheme to falsify records and obstruct an internal DHS-OIG inspection, announced Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and Special Agent in Charge Christopher Combs of the FBI’s San Antonio Field Office. The sentence was imposed by U.S. District Judge Andrew S. Hanen of the Southern District of Texas. “While leading an office responsible for investigating misconduct at other government agencies, Pedraza sought to impede and obstruct the investigation of his own office,” said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. “Pedraza’s criminal conduct resulted in the premature closing of criminal cases without resolution, potentially endangering our national security and allowing others to escape justice. We will root out and prosecute corruption wherever it may be found, including within the ranks of federal law enforcement.” Former DHS-OIG Special-Agent-in-Charge Eugenio Pedraza, 50, of McAllen, Texas, was found guilty following a four-day jury trial on March 14, 2014, of conspiring with three other special agents to falsify criminal investigative reports to impede an internal DHS-OIG inspection and obstruct the underlying criminal investigations. The jury also found Pedraza guilty of five counts of falsifying records. DHS-OIG is responsible for investigating alleged criminal activity by DHS employees, including corruption by Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and Immigration and Customs Enforcement personnel affecting the integrity of the U.S. borders. Pedraza headed DHS-OIG’s McAllen Field Office (MCA) from January 2009 to January 2012. According to evidence presented at trial, in September 2011, DHS-OIG conducted an internal inspection of the MCA to evaluate whether the agency’s investigative standards and policies were being followed. In anticipation of the internal inspection, Pedraza and at least three other DHS-OIG agents, including Special Agent Wayne Ball, engaged in a scheme to falsify investigative documents to make it appear that criminal investigations were being conducted in a timely fashion and in accordance with DHS-OIG standard operating procedures. The scheme’s purpose was to conceal severe lapses in DHS-OIG’s investigative standards and policies at the MCA and Pedraza’s failure to properly supervise agents and investigations. Court documents reflect that Pedraza, Ball, and other special agents wrote and signed false criminal investigative reports. Pedraza then approved the reports for inclusion in the official investigative case files. For example, the evidence at trial showed that, at Pedraza’s direction, a special agent drafted false memoranda of activity (MOAs) to fill gaps of inactivity in a criminal investigation to which he was assigned. The criminal investigation had been initiated in March 2010 and concerned allegations that a CBP officer was assisting the unlawful smuggling of undocumented aliens and narcotics into the United States. Because the MOAs were intended to describe investigative activities that occurred when the drafting agent was either not present at the MCA or not employed by DHS-OIG at all, Pedraza directed the agent to attribute the investigative activity to Ball. Ball then signed and backdated the false MOAs. Pedraza also signed and backdated the false MOAs, which were then placed in the investigation’s case file in advance of the internal inspection. Upon discovery of the falsified reports, the criminal investigation had to be closed without resolution. According to evidence presented at trial, Pedraza similarly directed other special agents to falsify records related to at least four other criminal investigations. On Jan. 17, 2013, Ball pleaded guilty to one count of conspiring with Pedraza and at least two other special agents to falsify records in federal investigations and obstruct an agency proceeding. Ball is scheduled to be sentenced on Jan. 7, 2015, by U.S. District Judge Hilda G. Tagle of the Southern District of Texas. This case was investigated by the FBI’s San Antonio Field Office and is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Eric Gibson, Brian Kidd and J.P. Cooney of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—William Hird, 69, of Philadelphia, PA, was sentenced today to 24 months in prison for his role in a fraud scheme involving judges at the former Philadelphia Traffic Court. Hird, who was Director of Records at the time, pleaded guilty in January to 18 counts, including conspiracy, wire fraud, mail fraud and lying to the FBI when questioned about ticket fixing at Traffic Court. Hird is the third defendant sentenced in the fraud conspiracy that involved frequent and pervasive “ticket-fixing” at the Philadelphia Traffic Court. In addition to the prison term, U.S. District Court Judge Robert F. Kelly ordered Hird to pay a $5,000 fine and ordered one year of supervised release. Former traffic court judge Fortunato Perri, Sr., who pleaded guilty on March 13, 2013, would receive traffic citation numbers, the names of offenders, or the actual citations to arrange “fixing” the ticket and would convey the information to William Hird. Hird, in turn, allegedly conveyed the request to the assigned judge or the judge’s staff. Hird was extremely loyal to Perri given that Perri helped Hird move up the ladder to a high-level administrator at Traffic Court. Recorded conversations demonstrate that Hird acceded to Perri’s requests to “fix” certain tickets. Given Hird’s position at Traffic Court and access to the judges, Hird was able to facilitate requests for ticket fixing for Perri. As part of the scheme, tickets were “fixed” by either being dismissed, finding the ticket holder “not guilty,” or finding the ticket holder guilty of a lesser offense. In many cases, the ticket holder did not even appear in Traffic Court, yet their ticket was “fixed.” As a result, the ticketholders paid lesser or no fines and costs, and evaded the assessment of points on their driving record. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Denise S. Wolf and Anthony J. Wzorek.
corruption Special Agent in Charge (SAC) Vincent B. Lisi of the FBI’s Boston Division announced today a new initiative designed to solicit the public’s help in identifying and targeting public corruption. The initiative includes the launch of a new, toll-free tip line number, 1-844-NOBRIBE (1-844-662-7423), and a billboard campaign called “Stop Corruption Now.” The campaign will focus on targeting fraud and corruption at all levels of government. Public corruption remains a top criminal priority for the FBI. It’s a breach of the public’s trust by government officials—whether elected, appointed or under contract—who use their public office for personal gain. It is a violation of federal law for any federal, state, or local government official to receive anything of value in exchange for or because of any official act. Due to the secretive nature of bribes, such crimes are often difficult to detect and even more difficult to prove without the assistance of concerned citizens. As a result, the FBI has set up a public corruption hotline for reporting tips at 1-844-NOBRIBE. Online tips can be submitted at tips.fbi.gov. Various types of corruption include bribery, extortion, embezzlement, racketeering, kickbacks, and money laundering, as well as wire, mail, bank, and tax fraud. The public is encouraged to review these corruption questionnaires for contract corruption, economic stimulus, and government fraud (available at the conclusion of this release). If the answer is yes to any of these questions, individuals are asked to contact the FBI. One area of growing concern over the last few years is the expansion of gaming which may also increase public corruption, financial, and organized crime. “Concerned citizens are the FBI’s biggest asset when it comes to exposing people who are abusing the public’s trust and misusing taxpayer money to line their own pockets. This tip line is designed to be an easy way for those with knowledge of schemes to report those schemes,” said SAC Lisi. In connection with this initiative, advertisements for the tip line will also appear on Facebook in the coming weeks. Questionnaires: Contracting corruption questionnaire Economic stimulus questionnaire Government fraud questionnaire
corruption GREAT FALLS—Dozens of senior federal law enforcement officials will meet in Great Falls this week to consult with the United States Attorney about his office’s anti-corruption strike-force known as the Guardians. The Guardians Project was launched in 2011 by U.S. Attorney Mike Cotter as a collaborative law enforcement effort to investigate and prosecute public corruption and fraud involving federal grants and contracts in the aftermath of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act—also known as the Stimulus Bill—which provided for significant increases in federal funding in Indian Country. The Guardians Project created a partnership that merged the extensive resources of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Internal Revenue Service with the expertise and experience of the various Offices of Inspector General, whose departments had provided significant grants and contracts to Indian tribes for the benefit of those communities. Agents working for the Inspectors General specialize in the investigation of fraud and corruption, and other forms of abuse of taxpayer monies, and possess specialized knowledge of federal programs. This week’s meeting of senior officials seeks to review the work of the Guardians and to coordinate with federal prosecutors about the future direction of the initiative. Department of Justice Inspector General Michael Horowitz will attend the meeting along with senior national officials from Offices of Inspector General for the Departments of Interior, Health and Human Services, Education, Housing and Urban Development, and the Environmental Protection Agency. Guardians’ case agents and regional officials from those departments will also be in Great Falls to discuss the progress and future direction of the Guardians Project. Management officials from the FBI and IRS will join the Inspectors General at the meeting on Thursday and have informal meetings with the U.S. Attorney on Wednesday afternoon. Those management officials attending the Great Falls meeting are: Department of Justice—Office of the Inspector General Michael Horowitz, Inspector General Norman Lau, Special Agent in Charge—Denver Region Department of Justice—Federal Bureau of Investigation Mary Rook, Special Agent in Charge—Salt Lake City Division Scott Vito, Assistant Special Agent in Charge Travis Burrows, Supervisory Senior Resident Agent Department of Interior—Office of Inspector General Stephen Hardgrove, Chief of Staff Matthew Elliott, Deputy Assistant Inspector General for Investigations Don Crook, Special Agent in Charge—Denver Region Department of Health and Human Services—Office of Inspector General Joanne Chiedi, Principal Deputy Inspector General Gary Cantrell, Deputy Inspector General—Investigations Gerry Roy, Special Agent in Charge—Kansas City Division Department of Treasury—Internal Revenue Service Stephen Boyd, Special Agent in Charge—Denver Field Office Steven Osborne, Assistant Special Agent in Charge Department of Education—Office of Inspector General Aaron Jordan, Acting Assistant Inspector general for Investigations Natalie Forbort, Special Agent in Charge—Long Beach Regional Office Environmental Protection Agency—Office of Inspector General Patrick Sullivan, Assistant Inspector General Alan Mito, Special Agent in Charge—Denver Region 8 Department of Housing and Urban Development—Office of Inspector General David Barnes, Assistant Special Agent in Charge, Denver Field Office Since the Guardians Project began obtaining indictments from the federal grand jury in late 2012, thirty two indictments and two informations have been filed charging 76 defendants and resulting in 35 felony convictions. The convictions are for conspiracy, bribery, fraud, embezzlement, extortion, obstruction of justice, money laundering and tax evasion. Notable Guardians prosecutions are the convictions of six defendants associated with the Po’Ka Program for disadvantaged youth on the Blackfeet reservation, the prosecution and conviction of Tony Belcourt, Chief Executive Officer of the Chippewa Cree Construction Corporation, and former tribal Chairmen John Chance Houle and Bruce Sunchild of the Rocky Boy’s reservation. Eight members of the Dale Old Horn family were convicted in 2012 and 2013 for their role in a scheme to defraud the Crow Tribe using positions with the Crow Tribe Historic Preservation Office.
corruption ROME, GA—Former Murray County Chief Magistrate Judge Bryant L. Cochran has been found guilty by a federal jury for arranging the false arrest of a woman who alleged that she had been sexually propositioned by Cochran, for tampering with a witness, and for sexually assaulting a county employee. “Cochran abused the trust placed in him by the people of Murray County,” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. “Cochran used the power and influence of his judicial position in a way that is the fundamental opposite of justice, arranging to have a citizen falsely arrested after she accused him of sexual misconduct. There is no greater breakdown in the justice system than when a judge uses his authority to wrongly seek to deprive a citizen of her liberty.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated: “The FBI continues to commit significant resources toward investigating allegations of criminal conduct by public officials. This conviction of former Magistrate Judge Cochran in federal court illustrates our commitment in following the facts in these otherwise sensitive investigations.” “The GBI is committed to working with our federal partners to hold accountable those whom the public trust to uphold the law. When someone in a position of authority victimizes citizens, law enforcement must be prepared to fully investigate these abuses of power,” said Vernon Keenan, Director, the Georgia Bureau of Investigation. According to United States Attorney Yates, the charges, and other information presented in court: From January 1, 2004, to August 15, 2012, Bryant Cochran served as the Chief Magistrate Judge in Murray County, Ga. In that position, Cochran sexually assaulted a Murray County employee and unlawfully searched the personal cellular telephone of another Murray County employee. In addition, on April 9, 2012, Cochran met with a female citizen regarding a legal matter. During the meeting, Cochran made inappropriate sexual advances towards the citizen. By mid-July 2012, the allegations of Cochran’s sexual misconduct towards the citizen had become public. In response, Cochran called several local police officers providing them with a “tip”—that the citizen carried drugs in her vehicle. In an effort to discredit the citizen, on or about August 12, 2012, Clifford J. Joyce (who was a tenant of Cochran’s and who has been convicted of conspiring to distribute a controlled substance based on the attempted “framing”) planted a metal tin containing five packets of methamphetamine under the citizen’s car. Two days later, on August 14, 2012, Murray County Sheriff’s Office Deputy Joshua Greeson (who has since been convicted of witness tampering) conducted a traffic stop on a car occupied by the citizen. During the traffic stop, several officers and a police drug dog searched the car for approximately ten minutes—but did not find any drugs. Thereafter, Captain Michael Henderson (who is Cochran’s cousin and who has also been convicted of witness tampering) had an approximately two minute telephone conversation with Cochran. Following that call, Henderson told an officer at the scene that according to his information; the citizen hid her drugs in a magnetic box under the left, rear of her car. Upon receiving that information, Greeson found the metal box magnetically attached to the car in that precise location. Inside the box, Greeson recovered five small packets containing methamphetamine. Greeson then told the citizen that he had recovered drugs from her car. At that point, the citizen stated that she had been set up. Despite this, Greeson arrested the citizen and transported her to jail. On August 15, 2012, the day after the arrest, Cochran resigned his position as Murray County’s Chief Magistrate Judge. On August 22, 2012, Joyce admitted to law enforcement officers that he planted drugs—after which the local District Attorney dismissed the charges against the woman. Finally, in an apparent effort to cover up the framing of the woman, Cochran tried to persuade a witness to provide false information to law enforcement officers. On May 13, 2014, a federal grand jury indicted Cochran, 44, of Chatsworth, Ga. for: (1) Conspiracy against Rights; (2) Deprivation of Rights under Color of Law, (3) Conspiracy to Distribute a Controlled Substance, and (4) Tampering with a Witness. The trial in this case began on Tuesday, December 2, and the jury began deliberations on December 10, 2014. The jury returned guilty verdicts on all counts the following day, December 11, 2014. Cochran will be sentenced February 20, 2015, at 1:30 p.m. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Georgia Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorneys Jeffrey W. Davis and William L. McKinnon, Jr. are prosecuting the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Presse-mails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the home page for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Rome Division is http://www.justice.gov/usao/gan/.
corruption SPRINGFIELD, MO—Tammy Dickinson, United States Attorney for the Western District of Missouri, announced that a former St. Clair County, Mo., sheriff’s deputy and a former county jail inmate were indicted by a federal grand jury today for their roles in a wire fraud scheme. Michael E. Mullaney, 52, of Lowry City, Mo., and William E. Parker, 52, of Fort Ritchie, Fla., formerly of Urich, Mo., were charged in an indictment returned by a federal grand jury in Springfield, Mo. Mullaney was a deputy with the St. Clair County Sheriff’s Department who arrested Parker for first degree burglary on Feb. 20, 2010. While Parker was incarcerated, the indictment says, he and Mullaney devised a scheme to defraud Work Force West Virginia to claim unemployment benefits for Parker to which he was not entitled. Today’s indictment alleges that Mullaney obtained personal information from Parker in order to make Parker’s claim for unemployment benefits through Work Force West Virginia. Mullaney allegedly completed an Internet form with Parker’s personal information to fraudulently certify Parker’s eligibility for unemployment benefits. Parker was not eligible for unemployment benefits, the indictment says, because he was not available and willing to accept full-time suitable work while he was incarcerated. As a result of the fraud scheme, the indictment says, Parker received $5,388 on a bank debit card between Feb. 25 and May 10, 2010. Today’s indictment also contains a forfeiture allegation, which would require Mullaney and Parker to forfeit to the government $5,388, which represents the proceeds obtained from the alleged offense. Dickinson cautioned that the charges contained in this indictment are simply accusations, and not evidence of guilt. Evidence supporting the charges must be presented to a federal trial jury, whose duty is to determine guilt or innocence. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Abram McGull II. It was investigated by the FBI, the Missouri State Highway Patrol, the St. Clair County, Mo., Sheriff’s Department and the Work Force West Virginia Unemployment Compensation Division.
corruption The former Treasurer of the City of Detroit and two former pension officials were convicted by a federal jury of conspiring to defraud retirees through bribery and kickbacks, U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade announced today. Joining McQuade in the announcement was Paul M. Abbate, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in Detroit, Jarod Koopman, Special Agent in Charge of the Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigations, and James Vanderberg, Special Agent in Charge, Department of Labor, Office of Labor Racketeering and Fraud Investigations, Chicago Regional Office. Jeffrey Beasley, 45, of Chicago, Illinois, the former Treasurer of the City of Detroit, Ronald Zajac, 70, of Northville, Michigan, the former General Counsel of Detroit’s two pension systems for more than 30 years, and Paul Stewart, 57 of Detroit, a trustee of Detroit’s Police and Fire Retirement System, were convicted following a two-month jury trial before U.S. District Judge Nancy G. Edmunds. All three defendants were convicted of conspiring to defraud the city’s pensioners of the honest services to which they were entitled by accepting bribes. In addition, Beasley was convicted of two counts of extortion and one count of bribery. Beasley was acquitted on three other counts of extortion. The evidence at trial showed that Detroit’s two retirement systems lost more $97 million on pension deals corrupted by bribes and kickbacks taken or paid by the defendants. Beasley, Zajac, and Stewart conspired with each other and with former Detroit Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick and others to take bribes and kickbacks in return for votes on investment decisions made by the boards of trustees of Detroit’s two pension systems. Beasley forced investment sponsors and consultants to pay Bernard Kilpatrick hundreds of thousands of dollars in exchange for his support of their proposed pension investments. Beasley also accepted tens of thousands of dollars in cash from investment sponsors and consultants in exchange for his support of their pension deals. As part of the conspiracy, Zajac organized so-called “birthday parties” for Beasley, Stewart, and another trustees. At the parties, people having business before the pension systems gave each trustee thousands of dollars in cash. Zajac also directed investment sponsors and pension consultants to give thousands of dollars in cash and entertainment to Beasley and Stewart. Zajac also demanded that an investment sponsor pay for a trip to London for Zajac and a pension trustee in exchange for a $10 million investment in Detroit pension money. During the conspiracy, Stewart accepted more than $48,000 in cash, trips, meals, drinks and other things of value in return for his support on pension deals proposed by the givers of the bribes. Among other things, Stewart accepted a Christmas basket stuffed with cash, a $5,000 Greektown casino chip, and a $4,000 trip to the Ritz-Carlton in Naples, Florida. McQuade said, “These defendants breached their duties to retirees by basing their investment decisions on bribes. Their greed cost retirees almost $100 million in losses to pension funds. In light of all of the sacrifices made by Detroit retirees, we are gratified that the jury has brought these corrupt pension officials to justice.” “The perpetrators in this case criminally conspired with one another to sell their influence over the city’s pension systems,” stated Paul M. Abbate, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI Detroit Field Office. “Their breach of the public’s faith and their fiduciary responsibilities to Detroit retirees resulted in nearly $100 million in losses. The FBI, along with its law enforcement partners, will continue to aggressively pursue and bring to justice those who abuse the public’s trust and enrich themselves at the cost of our communities.” Based on the jury’s guilty verdicts for conspiring to engage in honest services mail and wire fraud, Beasley, Zajac, and Stewart each face a maximum of twenty years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000. In addition, Beasley also faces an additional twenty years in prison and a fine of $250,000 for each of his two convictions for extortion, and an additional ten years in prison and a fine of $250,000 for his bribery conviction. Their sentences will be based on sentencing guidelines and other statutory factors In addition, a number of other defendants have been convicted in relation to the pension fund investigation, including: Roy Dixon, an investment sponsor convicted of conspiring with Beasley, Zajac, and Stewart to pay bribes; Monica Conyers, a former Trustee of the General Retirement System and former member of the Detroit City Council, for conspiracy to take bribes, including bribes relating to a proposed multi-million dollar pension fund investment in Wireless Resources and a $10,000 extortion payment relating to the Police and Fire Retirement System’s investment in the Romulus Deep Injection Waste Well; Samuel L. Riddle, Conyers’ Chief of Staff, for conspiracy to commit bribery and extortion relating to the Wireless Resources and Romulus Deep Injection Well investments; DeDan Milton, a former Trustee of Detroit’s two pension funds; Andrew Park, an owner of Asian Village, who paid a bribe to obtain a $2.75 million loan from Detroit’s General Retirement System; Derrick Miller, former Chief Information Officer of Detroit, who accepted the bribe from Park and who took a kickback of more than $500,000 on a $44 million investment by Detroit’s two pension funds; Chauncey Mayfield, for conspiracy to commit bribery with Treasurer Beasley by supplying Beasley and Kwame Kilpatrick with tens of thousands of dollars in hotel, entertainment, and private jet flights, as well as a job for Beasley’s paramour and significant contributions to the Kilpatrick Civic Fund, all in return for maintaining Mayfield’s position as an investment advisor controlling more than $200 million in pension fund money; andGeorge Stanton, the former Chief of Staff of a pension trustee, who accepted a $15,000 cash bribe from Dixon relating to a proposed investment in the Turks and Caicos Islands. The case was investigated by agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Internal Revenue Service, and the Department of Labor, Office of Inspector General, Office of Labor Racketeering and Fraud Investigations. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Robert Cares, David A. Gardey, and Stephanie Dawkins Davis.
corruption SAN FRANCISCO—Ian Furminger, 47, of Pleasant Hill and Edmond Robles, 46, of Danville, both San Francisco Police Department (SFPD) officers, were convicted today by a federal jury of conspiracy to violate civil rights, conspiracy to steal from a federally funded program, and devising a scheme to defraud and obtain money and property through wire fraud. Robles was also convicted of theft from a federally funded program. The jury found the defendants, who worked in the plain clothes unit of SFPD’s Mission Station, conspired to use their official positions to enrich themselves by stealing money and other valuable items, such as computers, electronic devices, and gift cards that were seized on behalf of the City of San Francisco, and to deprive suspects of due process of law by taking these items without booking them into evidence or including them in their police reports. The defendants were also convicted of defrauding the City and County of San Francisco by concealing their illegal activities by filing false police reports. Robles was convicted of theft from a federally funded program (the jury was unable to reach a unanimous decision as to Furminger’s participation in this offense). The defendants were acquitted of honest services wire fraud and one count of conspiring to distribute controlled substances. Furminger also was acquitted of extortion. The verdicts followed a nine-day jury trial before the Honorable Charles R. Breyer, United States District Court Judge. “Constitutional protections extend to each and every person,” said United States Attorney Melinda Haag, “These men victimized those they swore an oath to protect, ruined their own careers, and tarnished the star worn so proudly by other men and women of the San Francisco Police Department. With these convictions, we reaffirm our commitment to prosecuting police officers who choose to violate the civil rights of the people of the Bay Area.” FBI Special Agent in Charge David J. Johnson said, “Preservation of the rule of law demands that police officers who betray the public trust and violate their oaths be held accountable for their actions. Corruption—with or without a badge—is unacceptable, and today’s verdicts are a reminder that no one is above the law.” San Francisco Police Department Chief Greg Suhr remarked, “As I said on the day I was sworn in as Chief of Police, and repeated on the day these officers were arrested when asked about his ongoing investigation, ‘There is no place in the San Francisco Police Department and shouldn’t be in any police department for a dishonest cop.’ I meant what I said. I am seeking the immediate termination of these officers and expect that the Police Commission will act expeditiously in making that happen.” The defendants are currently released on bail pending their sentencing hearings. They have been suspended by SFPD without pay pending further proceedings before the Police Commission. The defendants’ sentencing hearings are scheduled for Feb. 23, 2014, at 10:00 a.m. before Judge Breyer in San Francisco. The maximum statutory penalties for each count of conviction are: Wire fraud (Counts 1 and 2), 18 U.S.C. § 1343—20 years in prison; $250,000 fine. Civil rights conspiracy (Count 5), 18 U.S.C. § 241—10 years in prison; $250,000 fine. Federal program theft conspiracy (Count 6), 18 U.S.C. §§ 371 and 666(a)(1)(A)—five years in prison & $250,000 fine. Federal program theft conspiracy (Count 7—Robles only), 18 U.S.C. § 666(a)(1)(A)—10 years in prison & $250,000 fine. Sentence will be imposed by the court after consideration of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and the federal statute governing the imposition of a sentence, 18 U.S.C. § 3553. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys in the Special Prosecutions and National Security Unit of the United States Attorney’s Office. The prosecution is the result of an investigation by agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, with assistance from the San Francisco Police Department.
corruption CHICAGO—A former chief of staff for an unnamed Chicago alderman pleaded guilty today to accepting a $7,500 cash bribe in exchange for obtaining the alderman’s letters of support for a license to sell alcohol in the alderman’s ward. The defendant, CURTIS V. THOMPSON, JR., accepted the bribe from an individual who claimed he wanted to open a convenience store but was actually a cooperating witness in an FBI undercover investigation. Thompson, 63, of Chicago, pleaded guilty to federal program bribery. According to court documents, Thompson accepted 75 $100 bills in a Christmas card that the cooperating witness gave him at the alderman’s holiday party on Dec. 19, 2013. Thompson admitted today that he used the money he received to pay personal expenses. Thompson faces a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. A written plea agreement states that the government anticipates a United States Sentencing Guidelines range of 12 to 18 months in prison. Thompson was arrested in February of this year and is free on bond while awaiting sentencing, which U.S. District Judge Samuel Der-Yeghiayan scheduled for March 17, 2015, in Federal Court. Thompson’s plea agreement and court documents describe a series of telephone conversations and in-person meetings between the cooperating witness and other individuals, including a meeting with Thompson on Oct. 7, 2013, in the alderman’s ward office. During the meeting, the cooperating witness showed Thompson a note, which stated, “$7,500 to Ald for L.O.S.” Thompson understood the note to mean payment of $7,500 in exchange for a letter of support from the alderman for a liquor license for a store to be opened in the ward. After seeing the note, Thompson nodded his head and said “Okay. I understand.” At a meeting with Thompson, the alderman, and another individual in the ward office on Oct. 29, 2013, the cooperating witness handed the alderman a note, which stated, “$12k to you for letter of support[.]” Thompson admitted that he was passed that note and that he understood that the cooperating witness was offering to pay money for a letter of support from the alderman for a liquor license. A third meeting was held on Nov. 19, 2013, at which the cooperating witness explained he was going through the process of becoming a convenience store franchisee. Over the next few weeks, Thompson prepared two letters of support on the alderman’s letterhead and signed the alderman’s name, after seeking and obtaining the alderman’s approval to write the letters. Thompson knew that the cooperating witness had picked up the letters of support from the alderman’s ward office and understood they would be used to obtain a liquor license for the proposed store. The bribe payment was exchanged a short time later. The guilty plea was announced by Zachary T. Fardon, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois, and Robert J. Holley, Special Agent-in-Charge of the Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The government is being represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Megan Church and Bethany Biesenthal.
corruption WASHINGTON—Donnie Dukes, a former compliance officer for the District of Columbia Public Schools, was sentenced today to a month in jail, to be followed by six months of home confinement, for carrying out a scheme involving more than $460,000 in fraudulent payments to a private transportation company that he owned and controlled. The sentence was announced by U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen Jr.; Andrew G. McCabe, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office; Daniel W. Lucas, District of Columbia Inspector General, and Christopher Cooper, Assistant Special Agent in Charge of the U.S. Department of Education Office of Inspector General’s Mid-Atlantic Regional Office. Dukes, 41, of Hyattsville, Md., pled guilty on Jan. 22, 2014, in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, to wire fraud and conflict-of-interest charges. He was sentenced by the Honorable Ketanji Brown Jackson. Following his home detention, Dukes will be placed on three years of probation. He also must pay $463,621 in restitution to the District of Columbia. According to the government’s evidence, Dukes worked from October 2008 until October 2010 as a compliance officer for the District of Columbia Public Schools (DCPS). His duties included making arrangements for transportation for the special needs students who received education services outside of the District of Columbia. At the same time, however, Dukes owned and controlled a private company that provided, among other services, transportation to students who needed to travel from the District of Columbia to education centers outside of the District of Columbia for special services. While working at DCPS, Dukes personally referred, or caused colleagues of his at DCPS to refer, 86 out-of-state student transports to his company, resulting in the firm receiving $325,000 in payments from the District of Columbia Office of the State Superintendent of Education. Of this, the government’s evidence showed, $163,621 involved illegitimate expenses. Dukes was terminated from DCPS in October 2010 as part of an overall reduction in the workforce. He then schemed to obtain non-public lists of students needing transportation services from his former colleagues at DCPS. Dukes later used these lists to create false invoices and supporting documentation for payments to his company in the names of the students. Dukes created 60 false invoices and supporting documentation through this scheme, causing the District of Columbia Office of the State Superintendent of Education to pay his company $300,000 for transportation services that never were provided. In announcing the sentence, U.S. Attorney Machen, Assistant Director in Charge McCabe, Inspector General Lucas, and Assistant Special Agent in Charge Cooper commended the work of those who investigated the case from the FBI’s Washington Field Office, the District of Columbia Office of Inspector General, and the U.S. Department of Education’s Office of Inspector General. They also acknowledged the efforts of those who worked on the case from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, including former Legal Assistant Nicole Wattelet and Assistant U.S. Attorney Seth B. Waxman, who prosecuted the case.
corruption LOS ANGELES—A Lake Elsinore man who was employed as a correctional officer at the Federal Correctional Institution, Terminal Island has pleaded guilty to a federal bribery charge for taking $1,000 in cash to smuggle a cell phone into the prison facility. Luis Borjon, 52, pleaded guilty on Tuesday to the felony charge and admitted that he took the payment while employed as a correctional officer by the United States Bureau of Prisons. Borjon pleaded guilty before United States District Judge R. Gary Klausner, who is scheduled to sentence the defendant on February 23, 2015. At sentencing, Borjon will face a statutory maximum sentence of 15 years in federal prison. According to court documents, Borjon approached an inmate under his supervision at the Terminal Island prison in November 2012 and solicited a “loan.” The inmate put Borjon in contact with the inmate’s brother, who was not in custody, and Borjon called the inmate’s brother to provide him with the number for Borjon’s “burner cell phone” (a disposable phone). The inmate’s brother met Borjon in January 2013 at a gas station in Lake Elsinore, where Borjon accepted approximately $1,000 in cash and a cell phone to smuggle into the prison. Borjon subsequently smuggled the cell phone into the Terminal Island facility and delivered it to the inmate. Soon after, other correctional officers found and seized the smuggled cell phone. After being indicted by a federal grand jury in June, Borjon was arrested on September 16. He was subsequently freed on bond. The Borjon investigation was conducted by the United States Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The Drug Enforcement Administration provided assistance during the investigation.
corruption Special Agent in Charge Carlos Cases of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) San Juan Division, announced the arrest of Luis Ramon Casellas conducted on December 4, 2014. Army Reservist Staff Sergeant Luis Ramon Casellas, based at Fort Buchanan in Guaynabo, Puerto Rico, has been indicted by a federal grand jury in the District of Puerto Rico for illegally smuggling from Afghanistan into the U.S. $113,750 in cash and approximately $6,300 in stolen military equipment and wrongfully obtaining from the government almost $97,000 in Overseas Housing Allowance payments. According to the indictment, in April 2013, Casellas was deployed to Kandahar Airfield in Afghanistan. As part of his duties, Casellas was responsible for helping to break down smaller bases in preparation for the withdrawal of U.S. military forces from Afghanistan. These duties included retrieving U.S. government property for future use and selling the rest for scrap to Afghan contractors. In the summer of 2013, Casellas was the leader of a three-man team that went to a Forward Operating Base to help break down that base. While this team was at the base, Casellas wrongfully took for his own use tools and equipment, including laptops and radios, belonging to the Department of Defense. Casellas sent some of this equipment to Puerto Rico. He also gave one of the team members some of the government property and told him that he could mail it home to Puerto Rico. Further, the indictment charges that Casellas mailed $113,750 in cash and fraudulently did not declare the value of the packages. Finally, according to the indictment, from February 2010 forward, Casellas wrongfully received from the U.S. Department of Defense Overseas Housing Allowance bi-monthly payments to pay for his rent in Puerto Rico, when in fact he was not paying rent. Casellas fraudulently obtained approximately $97,000 in these payments. The case is being investigated jointly by agents from the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction; the Federal Bureau of Investigation; the Defense Criminal Investigative Service; the Expeditionary Fraud Resident Agency, Major Procurement Fraud Unit, U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Division Command; and the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Homeland Security Investigations, with assistance from the Defense Contract Audit Agency. The case is being prosecuted by the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Puerto Rico. The public is reminded that a criminal complaint contains only charges and is not evidence of guilt. A defendant is presumed to be innocent until and unless proven guilty. The U.S. government has the burden of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—Robert Mulgrew, 57, of Philadelphia, PA, was sentenced today to 18 months in prison for lying about ticket fixing at Philadelphia’s former Traffic Court. A federal jury, on July 23, 2014, found Mulgrew, a former traffic court judge, guilty of committing perjury before the federal grand jury investigating the case. Mulgrew was already serving a 30-month prison sentence for defrauding the Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development (“DCED”). Mulgrew pleaded guilty in that case on September 19, 2013 to filing a false tax return, mail fraud and conspiracy to commit mail fraud and was sentenced August 6, 2014. U.S. District Court Judge Lawrence Stengel ordered today’s sentence to run consecutive to the previous prison term. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Denise S. Wolf and Anthony J. Wzorek.
corruption WASHINGTON—Ohio’s former deputy treasurer and a Chicago businessman were sentenced to federal prison today for their roles in a bribery and money laundering scheme involving the Ohio Treasurer’s Office. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, First Assistant U.S. Attorney Mark T. D’Alessandro of the Southern District of Ohio, Acting Special Agent in Charge John A. Barrios of the FBI’s Cincinnati Division and Attorney General Mike DeWine of Ohio made the announcement. Amer Ahmad, 40, and Joseph Chiavaroli, 34, both of Chicago, were sentenced today by U.S. District Judge Michael H. Watson of the Southern District of Ohio to serve 15 years in prison and 18 months in prison, respectively. Ahmad was ordered to forfeit $3.2 million, and Chiavroli was ordered to forfeit $400,000. Last year, Ahmad pleaded guilty to federal program bribery and conspiracy to commit honest services wire fraud, federal program bribery and money laundering, and Chiavaroli pleaded guilty to money laundering. Following his guilty plea, former Deputy Treasurer Ahmad fled to Pakistan and was sentenced today in absentia. He is currently in Pakistani custody pending an extradition request from the United States government. According to the defendants’ admissions in connection with their guilty pleas, from January 2009 through January 2011, Ahmad used his position as deputy treasurer to direct official state of Ohio business to securities broker Douglas E. Hampton in return for bribes. Ahmad and Chiavaroli concealed the payments received from Hampton by passing them through the accounts of their landscaping business. Hampton also funneled more than $123,000 to Mohammed Noure Alo, an attorney and lobbyist who was Ahmad’s close personal friend and business associate. Over the course of the scheme, Hampton paid in excess of $500,000 in bribes and received, in exchange, approximately $3.2 million in commissions for 360 securities trades on behalf of the Ohio Treasurer’s Office. Hampton and Alo were sentenced on Nov. 12, 2014, and Nov. 13, 2014, to 45 months in prison and 48 months in prison, respectively, for their roles in the scheme. The case was investigated by the FBI’s Central Ohio Public Corruption Task Force, which includes special agents from the FBI and the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Eric L. Gibson and Menaka Kalaskar of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Douglas W. Squires of the Southern District of Ohio. Follow the FBI’s Cincinnati Field Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s Cincinnati Field Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption WASHINGTON—A campaign manager pleaded guilty today in the Southern District of Texas for conspiring with others to pay voters to vote in a Donna, Texas, school board election, announced Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson of the Southern District of Texas. Five campaign workers have already pleaded guilty to vote-buying charges in connection with this election. Francisco “Frankie” Garcia, 47, of Donna, Texas, pleaded guilty to one count of conspiring to buy votes and one count of vote-buying in connection with the November 2012 general election. Garcia’s sentencing hearing is scheduled for Feb. 24, 2015, before Chief Judge Ricardo H. Hinojosa of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas. At his plea hearing, Garcia admitted that a general election was held on Nov. 6, 2012, in Donna, Texas, which included candidates for the presidential election, as well as candidates for various state, county and local offices, including members of the Donna School Board. Garcia worked as a campaign manager for four school board candidates, and he and others agreed to pay voters with cash and cocaine to vote for those candidates. This case was investigated by the FBI and is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Monique Abrishami and Maria Lerner of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Leo J. Leo of the Southern District of Texas.
corruption OCALA, FL—Senior U.S. District Judge Wm. Terrell Hodges yesterday sentenced Jason Monroe Epstein (29, Orlando) to 18 months in federal prison for receipt of a bribe by a public official. Epstein previously pleaded guilty to the offense on September 9, 2014. According to court documents, between April 1, 2012 and April 30, 2014, Epstein worked as a penitentiary corrections officer at the Coleman Federal Correctional Complex in Sumter County, Florida. During that time, federal agents received reliable information from inmates at the facility that Epstein had been accepting monetary payments in return for smuggling tobacco and marijuana into the prison. Further investigation resulted in recorded conversations between Epstein and the inmates, in which Epstein admitted to accepting the bribes. When confronted by investigators, Epstein confessed that he had received “hundreds of dollars” in illegal payments from the inmates and that he had smuggled the contraband into the prison for them on at least “three or four” occasions. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Department of Justice- Office of the Inspector General. It was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Robert E. Bodnar, Jr.
corruption GREENEVILLE, TN—On Nov. 24, 2014, James Finley Holt, 59, of Cosby, Tenn., was sentenced to serve 90 months in prison by the Honorable J. Ronnie Greer, U.S. District Judge. Holt pleaded guilty to an information charging him with distribution of controlled substances and possession of a firearm in furtherance of drug trafficking. The conviction of Holt was the result of an undercover investigation, spanning several months, conducted by the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation (TBI) and the Fourth Judicial District Attorney’s office. An undercover investigation by the TBI from April 2014 through July 2014 revealed that Holt bought stolen property and sold it from convenience stores he owned with his wife in Newport Tenn. He also distributed hydrocodone and swapped the drug for stolen property. Many of the transactions occurred while Holt was on duty as a detective captain with the Newport Police Department. In July 2014 Holt was arrested and search warrants were executed by TBI and other agencies, both at his residence and the Newport Police Department. Evidence seized included pill bottles, pills, a short barrel shotgun and other items outlined in the factual basis for the plea agreement on file with the U.S. District Court. Agencies assisting TBI included the Fourth Judicial District Attorney’s office, Tennessee Highway Patrol and Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant U.S. Attorney Donald Wayne Taylor represented the United States. U.S. Attorney William C. Killian said, “Holt illegally used his badge and the trust placed in him for personal gain. While the quantity of drugs he distributed was small by federal prosecution standards, his conviction was important because he victimized the community he swore to protect. Furthermore, he betrayed the brave men and women of law enforcement who risk their lives to protect and serve. The U.S. Attorney’s Office will continue to make it a priority to support law enforcement in the effort to protect the integrity and honor of the profession from those who abuse the privilege of wearing a badge.” Tennessee Bureau of Investigation Director Mark Gwyn stated, “This case was a blemish on the law enforcement community and those who do their best to uphold the law and maintain transparency. As a result of this investigation, it is my hope that we can all move forward and work harder to maintain public trust.”
corruption SAVANNAH, GA—Former Savannah-Chatham Metropolitan Police (SCMPD) Chief Willie Clinton Lovett, 66, was convicted last week by a federal jury on charges of extortion, participating in an illegal gambling operation, conspiring to obstruct the enforcement of state criminal laws, and providing false statements to federal agents. United States District Court Judge William T. Moore, Jr. presided over Lovett’s 5-day jury trial. United States Attorney Edward J. Tarver stated, “We are pleased with the jury’s verdict. For over a decade, Mr. Lovett chose to be the person he was sworn to protect the community against; that is, a criminal. While the public should be reminded that the vast majority of law enforcement officers live by their oaths, the public should also know that this Office will continue to work tirelessly with our FBI partners to investigate, prosecute, and convict criminals in police clothing. While we mark an end to a sad chapter in Savannah’s law enforcement history, this Office looks forward to continuing our work with new leadership to combat the violent crime that plagues our communities.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated: “The conviction of former Police Chief Lovett concludes an extensive federal investigation that was initiated based on the numerous allegations of criminal conduct by Lovett. The FBI, being tasked with oversight on such allegations of public corruption, embarked on a sensitive but necessary investigation that ultimately furthers the public’s trust in those that serve them. The FBI thanks the hard work of those prosecutors that presented this case as well as that of the jurors who listened to and deliberated the facts of this case.” According to evidence presented during the trial, for over a decade, Randall Wayne Roach and others operated an illegal gambling business in Savannah during holiday celebrations, such as St. Patrick’s Day, New Year’s Day, and other events. The illegal gambling business operated in violation of Georgia gambling laws, but free from law enforcement intervention. As a Major and then Chief of SCMPD (formerly the Savannah Police Department), Lovett extorted cash payments from Roach. In return, Lovett provided protection to the illegal gambling business against enforcement of Georgia gambling laws. Lovett received cash payments on several occasions in exchange for protection against the enforcement of the criminal gambling laws of the State of Georgia, which payments came from the proceeds of the illegal gambling business. Lovett then knowingly provided false information to FBI agents investigating the case about his relationship with Roach and the gambling operation. Roach pled guilty before Lovett’s trial to his role in the criminal activities. Roach testified against Lovett, detailing his gambling operation and the cash payments made to Lovett for protection. Lovett was convicted of one count of aiding a gambling operation, one count of conspiring to obstruct the enforcement of state gambling laws, two counts of extortion, and two counts of providing false statements. Lovett was acquitted on three additional counts of extortion. Lovett faces a maximum sentence of 60 years in prison, a $1,500,000 fine, and three years of supervised release. A sentencing hearing will be scheduled upon completion of a presentence investigation by the United States Probation Office. Lovett was allowed to remain on a bond pending his sentencing. Mr. Tarver commended the hard work and dedication of the FBI, which investigated the case. Special Agent Joshua W. Hayes led the FBI’s investigation. First Assistant United States Attorney James D. Durham and Assistant United States Attorney R. Brian Tanner prosecuted the case on behalf of the United States. Any questions should be directed to Mr. Durham at (912) 341-7842.
corruption KNOXVILLE, TN—On Nov. 21, 2014, Robert E. Cummings, 61, of Knox County, Tenn., and Benito D. Lopez, 62, of Knox County pleaded guilty to attempting to commit extortion under color of official right. Sentencing for Cummings was set for 1:00 p.m., on Mar. 23, 2015. Sentencing for Lopez was set for 9:00 a.m., on Mar. 30, 2015. Each faces a maximum of 20 years in prison, a $250,000 fine, and three years of supervision by the U.S. Probation office upon release from prison. Under “color of official right,” a public official obtains a payment to which he or she is not entitled, believing that the money is being given to him or her in return for taking, withholding, or influencing official action. Cummings was a former University of Tennessee Police Officer. Lopez was a former TVA Police Officer. Both Cummings and Lopez were indicted earlier this month by a federal grand jury, along with three other former or current law enforcement officers: Jimmy W. Douglas, 43, of Knox County, a former Deputy Sheriff for Knox County Sheriff’s Office; Samuel T. Hardy, Jr., 42, of Knox County, a former Deputy Sheriff for Knox County Sheriff’s Office; and David L. Joyner, 44, of Sevier County, a detective with the Pigeon Forge Police Department. Another former officer involved in the scheme previously pleaded guilty in U.S. District Court to an information charging him with violations of the Hobbs Act. Douglas, Hardy and Joyner have all entered not guilty pleas and are awaiting trial in U.S. District Court. The indictment and subsequent guilty pleas by the these individuals are the result of an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Tennessee Valley Authority—Office of Inspector General, and Tennessee Bureau of Investigation. Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeffrey Theodore represents the United States.
corruption MUSKOGEE, OK—The United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Oklahoma, announced that JASON BRETT MERIDA, age 42, of Rattan, Oklahoma was found guilty by a federal jury on Thursday, November 20, 2014 of six counts of a seven-count indictment. The defendant was indicted in February, 2014 and charged with Conspiracy To Commit Theft Or Bribery Of Programs Receiving Federal Funds, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371; 2 Counts of Theft By An Employee Or Officer Of A Tribal Government Receiving Federal Funds, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 666(a)(1)(A) and 2; Conspiracy to Commit Money Laundering, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1957 and 2 Counts of Tax Fraud, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 7206(1). The defendant was acquitted on one count of conspiracy to commit money laundering. The trial began with testimony on October 29, 2014 and concluded with closing arguments and jury deliberations on Thursday, November 20, 2014. Testimony at the trial established that MERIDA, the former Executive Director of Construction for the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma, conspired to corruptly demand, solicit and receive cash, trips, a Cadillac Escalade, plumbing fixtures, cattle guards, and other things of value in excess of the $5,000 from subcontractors performing work on Choctaw Nation construction projects. The testimony also revealed MERIDA, in concert with others, submitted and approved false invoices from subcontractors allowing him to steal, embezzle and fraudulently convert in excess of $500,000 in funds from the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma which were used to purchase items for MERIDA and others. The items included firearms, hunting equipment, hunting trips and furniture. MERIDA also willfully failed to report the proceeds of the fraud on his federal income taxes in 2009 and 2010. The charges resulted from an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigations. United States Attorney Mark Green stated, “Greed can be a terrible vice! In this case, Jason Merida and his co-conspirators placed their personal gain above the interests of the Choctaw Nation and its members. This verdict is a prime example of justice served when officials abuse a public trust.” “Last night’s guilty verdict is loud and clear: bribery, conspiracy, money laundering and tax fraud are not acceptable business practices to gain contracts with the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma,” said R. Damon Rowe, Special Agent in Charge for Dallas Field Office of IRS Criminal Investigation. He continued, “IRS will use every means available to identify and investigate those individuals who utilize illegal means to gain lucrative contracts to the detriment of the Choctaw Nation and to the American taxpayer.” James Finch, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation added, “The conviction of Jason Merida should serve as a reminder for all public officials to honor their respective offices. Corrupt public officials mar the trust which must exist between citizenry and government, and rob the public of the expectation that public officials will exercise good stewardship of their trust. The FBI and its investigative partners will continue to pursue and bring to justice all who soil their office.” The Honorable James H. Payne, District Judge in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Oklahoma, in Muskogee, presided over the trial and ordered the completion of a presentence investigation report. The defendant was released while awaiting sentencing. First Assistant United States Attorney Douglas A. Horn and Assistant United States Attorney Chris Wilson represented the United States.
corruption SACRAMENTO, CA—Two former California National Guard members recently pleaded guilty to charges of wire fraud stemming from a fraud scheme involving recruiting bonuses United States Attorney Benjamin B. Wagner announced. Brian Kaps, 40, of Chico, pleaded guilty today to one count of wire fraud. Sarah Nattress, 27, of Paradise, pleaded guilty on October 23, 2014, to one count of wire fraud. According to court documents, the United States Army contracted with Document and Packaging Broker Inc. (DOCUPAK) to administer the Guard Recruiting Assistance Program (G-RAP). Under G-RAP, members of the California National Guard served as Recruiting Assistants. If a Recruiting Assistant referred a potential Guard member to a recruiting office and that person ultimately enlisted, the Recruiting Assistant was eligible to receive monetary compensation disbursed by DOCUPAK. Nattress and Kaps served in the California National Guard as recruiting assistants. In separate cases, they pleaded guilty to taking part in a scheme to cause DOCUPAK to issue unearned recruiting compensation by falsely claiming that various enlistees had been referred to recruiting offices by them, when in fact they had not. These cases are the product of an ongoing investigation by the Army Criminal Investigative Command Major Procurement Fraud Unit, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Matthew G. Morris is prosecuting the cases. Nattress is scheduled to be sentenced by United States District Judge Troy L. Nunley on January 8, 2015. Kaps is scheduled to be sentenced by United States District Judge Garland E. Burrell Jr. on February 6, 2015. They face a maximum statutory penalty of 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Any sentence, however, would be determined at the discretion of the court after consideration of any applicable statutory factors and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, which take into account a number of variables. Six other National Guard members were also indicted in May 2014 in Fresno and Sacramento. The charges against them are only allegations; they are presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption In Austin today, 52-year-old former Jarrell (TX) Police Chief Andres Tomas Gutierrez was sentenced to 54 months in federal prison followed by three years of supervised release for a wire fraud/theft of honest services scheme announced United States Attorney Robert Pitman; Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) Special Agent In Charge Janice Ayala in San Antonio; Department of Homeland Security Office of Inspector General– Investigations Special Agent In Charge J. Kirk Beauchamp in Houston; and Federal Bureau of Investigation Special Agent In Charge Christopher H. Combs, San Antonio Division. On February 7, 2014, Gutierrez pleaded guilty to the wire fraud/theft of honest services charge. By pleading guilty, Gutierrez admitted that from the Fall of 2011 to November 2013, he devised a scheme to defraud and deprive the citizens of Jarrell of their right to his honest services through bribery and concealment of information. Gutierrez solicited and accepted cash bribes—between $10,000 and $40,000—from several undocumented aliens in return for requesting and obtaining for the aliens limited immigration benefits that the U.S. government intended and designed for law enforcement purposes. Gutierrez falsely represented to the U.S. government that the undocumented aliens were assisting the Jarrell Police Department with ongoing investigations into narcotics trafficking and human trafficking. According to court records, individuals unconnected to the City of Jarrell and its Police Department introduced Gutierrez to undocumented aliens who had money to pay for immigration benefits. Gutierrez or the individuals who made the introductions, or both, then met with the aliens and explained the benefits they could receive if they paid certain amounts of money. They lied to the aliens, telling them that the Jarrell Police Department would receive the money and use it to pay for law enforcement operations. They also told the aliens that they would provide information or assistance to the Jarrell Police Department, for use in criminal investigations, in return for the immigration benefits. That was also a lie. Gutierrez never asked the aliens to provide assistance or information in connection with criminal investigations. What Gutierrez asked for and received from the aliens was money. Furthermore, with the help of the individuals who introduced him to the aliens, Gutierrez simply sold the aliens the benefits. After an alien paid his or her money, Gutierrez would submit to the U.S. government an application for the alien to receive what is known as a Significant Public Benefit Parole, which is a type of immigration status that federal immigration laws make available to aliens who actually assist federal, state and local law enforcement agencies. The Paroles authorize an alien to reside and work in the United States for up to a year, and they can be renewed. The applications that Gutierrez submitted said the aliens were providing assistance with ongoing criminal investigations by the Jarrell Police Department, which was false. Also, Gutierrez never disclosed to the United States government that he was selling the Paroles. “The sentencing of Andres Gutierrez, the former Jarrell Police Chief, is the culmination of a long-term investigation into corruption and the violation of public trust,” said Special Agent in Charge Janice Ayala of Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) in San Antonio. “This case illustrates the ability of federal law enforcement agencies to leverage resources and work together to achieve justice.” “Acts of corruption within law enforcement threaten our nation’s system of justice and undermine the honest and hardworking law enforcement personnel who consistently strive to keep that system the best in the world. The Department of Homeland Security will not tolerate corruption, and we will aggressively pursue those who choose to break the law,” stated DHS OIG SAC J. Kirk Beauchamp. “The FBI will continue to utilize all resources to investigate those who have taken an oath to serve and protect our communities and use their position as a public servant to shield their criminal activities and violate the trust of those they serve,” stated FBI Special Agent in Charge Christopher Combs. This investigation was conducted by agents with Homeland Security Investigations, Department of Homeland Security Office of Inspector General—Investigations and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorneys Alan M. Buie and Gregg N. Sofer prosecuted this case on behalf of the Government.
corruption WASHINGTON—After a three-day trial, a federal jury found the former executive director of the Legislature of the Virgin Islands guilty of accepting bribes and extortion in the awarding of contracts with the Legislature. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Ronald W. Sharpe of the District of the Virgin Islands, and Special Agent in Charge Carlos Cases of the FBI’s San Juan Field Office made the announcement. Louis “Lolo” Willis, 56, of St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, was convicted of two counts of federal programs bribery and two counts of extortion under color of official right. U.S. District Judge Curtis V. Gomez of the District of the Virgin Islands set the sentencing hearing for Feb. 13, 2015. According to evidence presented at trial, Willis was the executive director of the Legislature between 2009 and 2012. His responsibilities included oversight of the major renovation of the Legislature building and awarding and entering into government contracts in connection with the project. Willis was also responsible for authorizing payment to the contractors for their work. Evidence presented at trial demonstrated that Willis accepted bribes, including $13,000 in cash and checks, from contractors in exchange for using his official position to secure more than $350,000 in contracting work for the contractors and to ensure they received payment upon completion. This case was investigated by the FBI-San Juan Field Office’s St. Thomas Resident Agency, the Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation, and the Office of the Virgin Islands Inspector General. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Peter Mason and Justin Weitz of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Delia Smith of the District of the Virgin Islands. Former Trial Attorneys Tracee Plowell and Jennifer Blackwell and former Assistant U.S. Attorney Kim Lindquist assisted in the investigation of the case.
corruption BALTIMORE, MD—U.S. District Judge William D. Quarles, Jr. sentenced former Baltimore Police officer Lamin Manneh, age 33, of Baltimore, today to 21 months in prison followed by two years of supervised release for traveling across state lines and using the telephone and Internet to operate a prostitution business. The sentence was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Colonel Marcus L. Brown, Superintendent of the Maryland State Police; and Anne Arundel County State’s Attorney Anne C. Leitess. According to Manneh’s indictment and information presented at court hearings, from February to May 9, 2013, Manneh operated a prostitution business with over 300 customers. Manneh’s 19 year old wife and another 19 year old woman worked as prostitutes for Manneh. The government alleges that as part of his business, Manneh wrote, paid for and posted more than 50 prostitution ads for the two women on Internet websites; rented an apartment and hotel rooms for clients; and drove the women to residences and hotel rooms specified by clients. According to information presented at the plea hearing, Manneh provided the women with cell phones and taught them to use “voice over Internet” phone services to communicate with prospective clients and with one another. Manneh waited outside the prostitution locations and sent the women electronic messages when they were with clients. Manneh carried his police-issued firearm and agreed to forcibly interrupt a sex interaction if the client was aggressive or non-compliant. He supplied both women with synthetic marijuana. Manneh collected all of his wife’s prostitution earnings and a percentage of the other woman’s prostitution earnings. The case was investigated by the FBI-led Maryland Child Exploitation Task Force (MCETF), created in 2010 to combat child prostitution, with members from10 state and federal law enforcement agencies. The Task Force coordinates with the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children and the Maryland State Police Child Recovery Unit to identify missing children being advertised online for prostitution. MCETF partners with the Maryland Human Trafficking Task Force, formed in 2007 to discover and rescue victims of human trafficking while identifying and prosecuting offenders. Members include federal, state and local law enforcement, as well as victim service providers and local community members. For more information about the Maryland Human Trafficking Task Force, please visit http://www.justice.gov/usao/md/priorities_human.html. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein commended the FBI, Maryland State Police and Anne Arundel County State’s Attorney’s Office for their work in the investigation and recognized the Baltimore Police Department for its assistance. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant U.S. Attorney Mark W. Crooks, who prosecuted the case.
corruption BATON ROUGE, LA—United States Attorney Walt Green announced today that U.S. District Judge Maurice A. Hicks has re-sentenced GEORGE L. GRACE, SR., age 70, of St. Gabriel, Louisiana, to twenty (20) years’ imprisonment, a $50,000 fine, forfeiture of $22,000, and a year of supervised release following imprisonment. Today’s sentencing is the result of a decision by the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals which required the original 22 year prison sentence to be reconsidered. The sentence is based on GRACE’s corrupt activities while serving as the Mayor of St. Gabriel and the President of the National Conference of Black Mayors. It is believed to be the longest public corruption prison sentence in the history of Louisiana. GRACE was convicted by a jury following a six week trial of violating the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO), obstruction of justice, making false statements, mail fraud, wire fraud, bribery involving a federally-funded entity, and use of an interstate facility in aid of racketeering. At sentencing, the court determined that GRACE was responsible for over four different bribery schemes involving over nine (9) million dollars, including schemes to extort businessmen seeking to do business in the city and help victims of Hurricane Katrina. U.S. Attorney Green stated: “This historic sentence should send a loud and clear message that those engaged in public corruption will face severe punishment, and hopefully, any public official who might consider such a path will take heed.” Status of Other Operation Blighted Officials Defendants Thomas A. Nelson, Jr.: The former Mayor of New Roads, Louisiana, was convicted by a federal jury following a two and a half week trial of violating RICO, engaging in honest services wire fraud, using an interstate facility in aid of racketeering, and making false statements to the FBI. Chief Judge Jackson sentenced Nelson to 11 years in prison. Following appeal, Nelson’s sentence was reduced to 10 years in prison. Maurice Brown: The former Mayor of White Castle, Louisiana, was convicted by a federal jury following a two week trial of violating RICO, engaging in honest services wire and mail fraud, and use of an interstate facility in aid of racketeering. Chief Judge Jackson sentenced Brown to 10 years in prison. Frederick W. Smith: The Chief of Police for Port Allen, Louisiana, was convicted by a federal jury following a two week trial of 11 counts of violating RICO, engaging in honest services wire and mail fraud, and using an interstate facility in aid of racketeering. Chief Judge Jackson sentenced Smith to 90 months in prison. Derek Lewis: The former Mayor of Port Allen, Louisiana, pled guilty to violating RICO and agreed to cooperate with authorities. Chief Judge Jackson sentenced Lewis to 40 months’ imprisonment. Johnny Johnson: The former member of the Port Allen City Council pled guilty to using an interstate facility in aid of racketeering and agreed to cooperate with authorities. Chief Judge Jackson sentenced Johnson to two years of probation, with a condition of having to spend 6 months in a half-way house. Richard Chambers: The former deputy commissioner of the Louisiana Department of Insurance pled guilty to using an interstate facility in aid of racketeering and agreed to cooperate with authorities. Chief Judge Jackson sentenced Chambers to 30 months’ imprisonment. This investigation was being conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of Louisiana, with assistance from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Office of Inspector General, and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Office of Inspector General. Operation Blighted Officials was prosecuted by First Assistant United States Attorney Corey R. Amundson, who serves as Chief of the Criminal Division, Assistant United States Attorney M. Patricia Jones, who serves as Senior Litigation Counsel, and Assistant United States Attorney Michael J. Jefferson.
corruption WILMINGTON, DE—Charles M. Oberly, III, United States Attorney for the District of Delaware, announced today that Peter W. Hayes, age 49 of Newark, DE, pleaded guilty to one count of accepting a gift for procuring loans, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 215. United States District Judge Richard G. Andrews scheduled a sentencing hearing for March 17, 2015, at 9 a.m. Hayes, a former Relationship Manager at Wilmington Trust Corp. (“WTC” or the “Bank”), admitted that he purchased two model homes from a large Bank customer (the “customer”) in November 2005 as part of a sale/lease-back arrangement, whereby the customer agreed to pay Hayes and his business partner monthly lease payments in the exact amount of, and to satisfy, their monthly mortgage payments. In March 2008, Hayes and his partner sold the model homes to a third-party for a loss, leaving Hayes with a $70,000.00 obligation to his mortgage lender. Hayes ultimately requested a loan from the WTC customer to cover the shortfall. In November 2008, the customer loaned Hayes the necessary funds by issuing him a check from the customer’s operating account at WTC. Hayes repaid the loan in February 2009 by depositing a treasury check directly into the customer’s WTC operating account. During the four year period in which Hayes had a financial relationship with the customer, he approved millions of dollars in financing for various projects being developed by the customer. As part of his guilty plea, Hayes admitted to making specific funding decisions for the customer that were based on materially false statements and omissions, or were otherwise in contravention of existing loan agreements. With his guilty plea, Hayes becomes the third former Bank employee to plead guilty to criminal conduct relating to his employment at WTC. United States Attorney Oberly said, “It is a serious offense for a bank insider to engage in self-dealing with a client for his own personal benefit. The successful prosecution of Mr. Hayes demonstrates my Office’s commitment to uncover criminal misconduct committed by bank officers, particularly where such activity has the potential to affect the safety and soundness of a financial institution and its shareholders.” “Hayes, a former relationship manager at TARP bank Wilmington Trust, is the third employee to plead guilty to charges stemming from the investigation by SIGTARP and our partners of purported criminal conduct at the bank,” said Christy Romero, Special Inspector General for TARP (SIGTARP). “In today’s plea, Hayes admitted to exchanging favors with a long-time bank customer for his personal benefit. SIGTARP and our law enforcement partners stand united in our commitment to safeguarding TARP on behalf of taxpayers, and perpetrators of crime related to TARP will be brought to justice.” The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation; the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (SIGTARP); and the Internal Revenue, Service Criminal Investigation Division, and is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Robert F. Kravetz and Lesley F. Wolf.
corruption WASHINGTON—Lenard Fleming, 34, a former corrections officer who worked for the Corrections Corporation of America (CCA), pled guilty today to a bribery charge for accepting money to smuggle contraband into the District of Columbia’s Correctional Treatment Facility. The guilty plea was announced by U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen Jr.; Andrew G. McCabe, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office; and Thomas N. Faust, Director of the District of Columbia Department of Corrections. Fleming, of District Heights, Md., pled guilty in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia to one count of bribery. The Honorable Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson scheduled sentencing for Feb. 12, 2015. Under federal sentencing guidelines, Fleming faces a likely range of 24 to 37 months of incarceration, as well as a fine of up to $60,000. Fleming is subject to forfeiture money judgment for money taken in the bribery scheme. According to the government’s evidence, Fleming had worked for the Corrections Corporation of America (CCA) as a corrections officer at the Correctional Treatment Facility. CCA, a private company, has a contract to provide services to the D.C. Jail. During the investigation, the FBI recovered contraband from an inmate at the Correctional Treatment Facility in January 2014. Fleming admitted that he smuggled items for the same inmate through that inmate’s contacts outside of the Correctional Treatment Facility. Fleming received cash payments in exchange for smuggling cigarettes and, on one occasion, an iPhone, into the Correctional Treatment Facility for delivery to the inmate. Fleming was terminated by CCA in February 2014 following a complaint that he was smuggling contraband into the facility for another inmate. CCA was presented with allegations that Fleming met several times with the wife of another inmate. On each occasion, the inmate’s wife provided Fleming cash in exchange for Fleming smuggling cigarettes and synthetic marijuana into the facility and delivering it to the inmate. Fleming was arrested April 30, 2014. In a related investigation, another former corrections officer at the Correctional Treatment Facility, Darren Malry, 52, pled guilty on Oct. 17, 2014, to a bribery charge. According to the government’s evidence, on March 11, 2014, Malry smuggled contraband into the facility for an inmate. Malry was arrested that day. Malry is to be sentenced Feb. 6, 2015. In announcing today’s plea, U.S. Attorney Machen and Assistant Director in Charge McCabe, and Director Faust commended the work of those who jointly worked the case, including agents from the FBI’s Washington Field Office, investigators from the District of Columbia Department of Corrections Office of Investigative Services, and investigators from the Corrections Corporation of America. They also commended the efforts of those who worked on the case from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, including Paralegal Specialists Donna Galindo, Corinne Kleinman, and Angela Lawrence; Assistant U.S. Attorneys Melinda Williams, Todd Gee, and former Assistant U.S. Attorney Justin Dillon, who assisted in the investigation, and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Catherine K. Connelly, Allessandra Stewart, and Arvind Lal, who assisted with forfeiture issues. Finally, they expressed appreciation for the work of Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard DiZinno, who prosecuted the case.
corruption NEWARK, NJ—An Essex County corrections officer was arrested today by special agents of the FBI for taking bribes to smuggle contraband, including cell phones and cigarettes, into the Essex County Jail, a federal pretrial detention facility, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. John Grosso, 41, of Belleville, New Jersey, was arrested this morning at the Essex County Jail. He is charged by complaint with one count of conspiring to commit extortion under color of official right, in violation of the Hobbs Act. He appeared this afternoon before U.S. Magistrate Judge Cathy L. Waldor in Newark federal court and was released on $100,000 bail. According to the complaint: On multiple occasions between November 2013 and December 2013, Grosso, a corrections officer at the Essex County Jail, accepted cash bribes of approximately $1,000 in return for smuggling cell phones and cigarettes to an inmate. Grosso usually met with the inmate’s associate in the parking lot of the Best Buy store in Secaucus, New Jersey, to accept the contraband packages and cash bribes, before delivering the packages to the inmate. Conspiring to commit extortion under color of official right, in violation of the Hobbs Act, carries a maximum potential penalty of 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford in Newark, and the Internal Affairs Division of Essex County Correctional Facility, under the leadership of Warden Roy Hendricks, with the investigation. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Rahul Agarwal of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division and Rob Frazer of the Criminal Division, Organized Crime/Gangs Unit, in Newark. The charge and allegations contained in the complaint are merely accusations and the defendant is considered innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption WASHINGTON—A former lobbyist and a former securities broker have been sentenced for their roles in a bribery and money laundering scheme involving the Ohio Treasurer’s Office. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, First Assistant U.S. Attorney Mark T. D’Alessandro of the Southern District of Ohio, Special Agent in Charge Kevin R. Cornelius of the FBI’s Cincinnati Division and Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine made the announcement after sentencing by U.S. District Judge Michael H. Watson of the Southern District of Ohio. Douglas E. Hampton, 40, of Uniontown, Ohio, was sentenced today to serve 45 months in prison and ordered to forfeit $2,202,259. Mohammed Noure Alo, 35, of Columbus, Ohio, was sentenced yesterday to serve 48 months in prison and ordered to forfeit $123,622. Last year, Alo pleaded guilty to aiding and abetting honest services wire fraud, and Hampton pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit honest services wire fraud, federal program bribery and money laundering. The former Deputy Treasurer for Ohio, Amer Ahmad, fled after pleading guilty to federal program bribery and conspiracy to commit honest services wire fraud, federal program bribery, and money laundering, and is currently in Pakistani custody pending an extradition request from the United States government. Joseph Chiavaroli, 34, of Chicago, pleaded guilty to money laundering and is scheduled for sentencing on Dec. 1, 2014. According to the defendants’ admissions in connection with their guilty pleas, from approximately January 2009 through January 2011, Ahmad, Alo, Hampton and Chiavaroli conspired to use Ahmad’s position as deputy treasurer to direct official state of Ohio business to Hampton in return for bribes from Hampton. Ahmad and Chiavaroli concealed the payments received from Hampton by passing them through the accounts of their landscaping business. Hampton also funneled more than $123,000 to Alo, an attorney and lobbyist who was Ahmad’s close personal friend and business associate. During the course of the scheme, Hampton paid in excess of $500,000 in bribes, and received, in exchange, approximately $3.2 million in commissions for 360 securities trades on behalf of the Ohio Treasurer’s Office. The case was investigated by the FBI’s Central Ohio Public Corruption Task Force, which includes special agents from the FBI and the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Eric L. Gibson and Menaka Kalaskar of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Douglas W. Squires of the Southern District of Ohio. Follow the FBI’s Cincinnati Field Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s Cincinnati Field Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption BIRMINGHAM—Federal prosecutors today charged a former Winston County sheriff’s deputy with using his police authority to extort a woman to cook methamphetamine, and with causing her to manufacture and distribute the drug at the home where she lived with a minor child, announced U.S. Attorney Joyce White Vance and FBI Special Agent in Charge Richard D. Schwein Jr. The U.S. Attorney’s Office charged GRADY KEITH CONCORD, 42, of Lynn, with one count of extortion under color of official right, one count of manufacturing methamphetamine and one count of manufacturing and distributing methamphetamine on premises where children are present or reside. Concord has agreed to plead guilty to the charges. Prosecutors filed the three-count information and Concord’s plea agreement in U.S. District Court. According to those documents, Concord was a deputy with the Winston County Sheriff’s Office in July 2013 when he approached a woman who lived in the town of Nauvoo and pressured her to manufacture methamphetamine for him. Concord was a methamphetamine user and arranged to supply the woman with pseudoephedrine, a necessary ingredient of the illegal drug, in exchange for a portion of the finished product. Concord disputes the woman’s claim that he threatened her with an arrest warrant unless she agreed to the arrangement, but he concedes that because he was a sheriff’s deputy, she may have felt that she “had no choice but to accept his offer,” his plea agreement states. On several occasions between July 2013 through June 2014, Concord delivered pseudoephedrine to the woman’s home, where she manufactured the methamphetamine, and where he picked up the illegal drug, according to his plea agreement. Concord obtained decongestant pills containing pseudoephedrine from the sheriff’s office evidence room, and he and his wife both bought the pills, the plea agreement states. Concord knew the woman had two sons who lived with her, and that one of them was a minor, according to the plea agreement. He faces a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine on the extortion count and a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a $1 million fine on the count of manufacturing methamphetamine. Any sentence imposed for the manufacture of methamphetamine where minors reside or are present must be served consecutively to any other sentence imposed. The maximum penalty for that count is 20 years in prison and a $2 million fine. As part of Concord’s plea agreement, he must surrender all law enforcement certifications and not seek future employment in law enforcement or custodial oversight, including as a correctional or probation officer or bail bondsman. The FBI, State Bureau of Investigation, agents of the Lauderdale County Drug Task Force assigned to the FBI’s Safe Streets Task Force, and the Winston/Marion County District Attorney’s Office, in cooperation of the Winston County Sheriff’s Office and the Lynn Police Department investigated the case. Assistant U.S. Attorney Tamarra Matthews Johnson is prosecuting the case.
corruption COLUMBUS—A former Ohio attorney and lobbyist was sentenced today for his role in a bribery and money laundering scheme involving the Ohio Treasurer’s Office. Assistant Attorney General Leslie Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, First Assistant U.S. Attorney Mark T. D’Alessandro of the Southern District of Ohio, Special Agent in Charge Kevin R. Cornelius of the FBI’s Cincinnati Division, and Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine made the announcement. Mohammed Noure Alo, 35, of Columbus, Ohio, appeared before U.S. District Judge Michael H. Watson of the Southern District of Ohio for sentencing today. Judge Watson sentenced Alo to 48 months in prison for honest services wire fraud and ordered he pay over $123,000 forfeited as a money judgment. A co-defendant, the former Deputy Treasurer for Ohio, Amer Ahmad, fled after his guilty plea to federal program bribery and conspiracy, and is currently in Pakistani custody pending an extradition request from the United States government. Alo was a partner and founding member of a Columbus-based law firm and became a registered lobbyist to the State of Ohio in 2010. Court records state that from approximately January 2009 through January 2011, Alo admitted he conspired with his close personal friend Amer Ahmad, 38, of Chicago, and others to use Ahmad’s role as deputy treasurer to direct official State of Ohio broker services business to Douglas E. Hampton, 39, a securities broker from Canton, Ohio, in return for payments from Hampton. Hampton funneled bribe payments in excess of $123,000 through Alo. Ahmad and Joseph M. Chiavaroli concealed additional payments from Hampton by passing them through the accounts of a landscaping business in which Ahmad and Chiavaroli held ownership interests. As a result of the scheme, Hampton received approximately $3.2 million in commissions for 360 trades on behalf of the Ohio Treasurer’s Office. Ahmad and his co-conspirators received in excess of $500,000 from Hampton. Alo entered a guilty plea in December 2013. Both Hampton and Chiavaroli entered guilty pleas in August 2013. Hampton is scheduled for sentencing tomorrow at 10 a.m.. Chiavaroli is scheduled for sentencing at 10 a.m. on December 1, 2014. The case was investigated by the FBI’s Central Ohio Public Corruption Task Force, which includes special agents from the FBI and the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Douglas W. Squires and Trial Attorneys Eric L. Gibson and Menaka Kalaskar of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section.
corruption NEWARK, NJ—A Jersey City fire inspector admitted today to accepting bribes to provide prostitution businesses with certificates of occupancy and advance notice of inspections or law enforcement activity, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Phillip Procaccino, 56, of Belleville, New Jersey, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Katharine S. Hayden in Newark federal court to an information charging him with one count of attempting to obstruct, delay and affect interstate commerce by extortion under color of official right. According to documents filed in this case and statements made in court: Procaccino admitted that on Oct. 23, 2013, he accepted $2,500 in exchange for his official assistance in obtaining a certificate of occupancy for a massage parlor, which also operated as a prostitution business. Procaccino also offered to provide notice of impending inspections from Jersey City authorities so the owner and employees could preemptively hide evidence of prostitution. In addition, Procaccino agreed to take 10 percent of a separate prostitution business’ future profits in exchange for a certificate of occupancy and one day’s advance notice of any police activity targeting the business. Both prostitution businesses were located in Jersey City. The extortion count to which Procaccino pleaded guilty carries a maximum potential penalty of up to 20 years in prison and a fine of the greater of $250,000 or twice the gross gain or loss caused by the offense. Sentencing is scheduled for Feb 23, 2015. U.S. Attorney Fishman praised special agents of the FBI’s Newark Field Office, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford; and criminal investigators from the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Newark, for their work leading to today’s plea. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Vikas Khanna and Amy Luria of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division in Newark.
corruption WASHINGTON—A former contractor for the U.S. Navy Military Sealift Command (MSC) and a co-founder of a Chesapeake, Virginia, government contracting company were sentenced today for their roles in a scheme to bribe and provide illegal gratuities to public officials to secure lucrative military contracts. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Dana J. Boente of the Eastern District of Virginia, Special Agent in Charge Royce E. Curtin of the FBI’s Norfolk Office, Executive Assistant Director Charles T. May Jr. of the Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS), and Special Agent in Charge Robert E. Craig, Jr. of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS) Mid-Atlantic Field Office made the announcement. United States District Judge Rebecca Beach Smith of the Eastern District of Virginia imposed the sentences. Scott B. Miserendino Sr., 55, of Stafford, Virginia, and Timothy S. Miller, 58, of Chesapeake, Virginia, were sentenced to serve 96 months in prison and 24 months in prison, respectively. Miserendino was also ordered to forfeit $212,000 and Miller was ordered to forfeit $167,000. Miller was also ordered to pay a fine of $25,000. In August 2014, Miserendino pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit bribery and one count of bribery, and Miller pleaded guilty to providing illegal gratuities to Miserendino and Kenny E. Toy, the former Afloat Programs Manager for the N6 Command, Control, Communication, and Computer Systems Directorate. According to admissions in his plea agreement, Miserendino was a government contractor at the MSC, which is the leading provider of transportation for the U.S. Navy. In that position, Miserendino worked closely with Toy, who exercised substantial influence over the MSC contracting process. In November 2004, Miserendino and Toy initiated a bribery scheme that spanned five years, involved multiple co-conspirators, including two companies, and resulted in Miserendino and Toy receiving more than $265,000 in cash, among other things of value, in exchange for official acts in connection with the award of MSC contracts. Specifically, Miserendino and Toy solicited cash from co-conspirators, including a $50,000 cash payment from Miller and his business partner, Dwayne A. Hardman, to influence the award of government contracts. Miserendino admitted that he and Toy also accepted other things of value in exchange for official acts, including a vacation rental, laptop computers, flat screen televisions, a football helmet signed by Troy Aikman, a wine refrigerator and softball bats. According to Miller’s admissions, during the scheme, his company received approximately $2.5 million in business from the MSC, despite its limited record of past performance in the industry. Miserendino and Toy also directed $3 million in business from MSC to another company run by other co-conspirators. After the cash payments were delivered, Miller admitted that he directed the creation of a false promissory note disguising the illegal gratuities as a personal loan to another individual. Miserendino also admitted to engaging in a scheme to conceal his criminal activity by arranging for more than $85,000 to be paid to Hardman in an attempt to dissuade him from reporting the bribery scheme to law enforcement authorities. Earlier this year, five other individuals pleaded guilty and were sentenced in connection with the bribery scheme: Toy pleaded guilty to bribery and was sentenced to eight years in prison and ordered to forfeit $100,000; Hardman pleaded guilty to bribery and was sentenced to eight years in prison and ordered to forfeit $144,000; Michael P. McPhail pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery and was sentenced to three years in prison and ordered to forfeit $57,000; Roderic J. Smith pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery and was sentenced to four years in prison and ordered to forfeit $175,000; and Adam C. White pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery and was sentenced to two years in prison and ordered to forfeit $57,000. The case was investigated by the FBI, NCIS and DCIS, and prosecuted by Trial Attorney Emily Rae Woods of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen W. Haynie of the Eastern District of Virginia.
corruption WASHINGTON—A Puerto Rican man has pleaded guilty to conspiring with corrupt police officers to commit a July 2012 robbery of a home in Bayamon, Puerto Rico, announced Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodríguez-Vélez of the District of Puerto Rico. Fernando Reyes-Rojas, 43, of the Dominican Republic, pleaded guilty on Nov. 6, 2014, to violations of robbery, civil rights, narcotics, and firearms laws. Reyes-Rojas is the sixth defendant convicted in connection with the July 2012 robbery. Reyes-Rojas’s sentencing is scheduled for Feb. 4, 2015. According to court documents, Reyes-Rojas, a civilian, agreed with at least three corrupt Police of Puerto Rico (POPR) officers and others to participate in a home robbery to steal money and narcotics. On July 14, 2012, Reyes-Rojas joined the corrupt police officers and others in robbing a house in Bayamon. The men entered the house, identified themselves as police, and falsely claimed they were executing a search warrant. After searching the property and the people who were present, they stole money and cocaine. Reyes-Rojas sold the cocaine and paid the officers for their role in the robbery. The corrupt police officers and a second civilian previously pleaded guilty for their participation in the July 2012 robbery. On Oct. 7, 2014, Jorge Fernandez-Aviles, 49, a POPR sergeant, pled guilty to robbery and firearms charges. On Oct. 3, 2014, David Figueroa, a civilian, pled guilty to robbery and civil rights charges. Alexander Mir-Hernandez, 40, a POPR officer, also pleaded guilty to one count of false statements for lying to federal agents about his role in the July 2012 robbery and to a civil rights crime for an unrelated December 2013 robbery. Sentencing for all three is scheduled for Jan. 9, 2015. Pedro Lopez-Torres, 35, and Luis Ramos-Figueroa, 38, both POPR officers, were each charged by information on June 25, 2014, for their roles in the July 2012 robbery and other crimes. Lopez- Torres and Ramos-Figueroa pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge José A. Fusté the same day. This case was investigated by the FBI’s San Juan Division. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Heidi Boutros Gesch and Brian Kidd of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Mariana Bauza of the District of Puerto Rico.
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, and Patricia M. Ferrick, Special Agent in Charge of the New Haven Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, today announced that a federal grand jury sitting in New Haven has returned an indictment charging PAUL PERROTTI, 47, of Middlebury, with three counts of theft concerning programs receiving federal funds. PERROTTI is the Fire Chief for the Town of Middlebury. PERROTTI was arrested this morning at his residence. He appeared before U.S. Magistrate Judge Holly B. Fitzsimmons in Bridgeport and was released on a $250,000 bond. According to the indictment, PERROTTI has been the Fire Chief of the Middlebury Volunteer Fire Department, Inc. (“MVFD”) since 1997. PERROTTI also is a licensed electrical contractor and, since approximately 2010, has operated Paul Perrotti Electric, LLC (“PPE”). The indictment alleges that between 2011 and 2013, PERROTTI used MVFD operating accounts to pay for unauthorized personal expenses and for expenses associated with PPE. These payments included checks paid directly to PERROTTI, checks paid directly to PPE, checks made directly payable to employees of PPE, checks made to various vendors of PPE for PPE-related supplies, and checks made to reimburse third parties for personal loans owed by PERROTTI. PERROTTI also submitted invoices to the Town of Middlebury for expenses that he falsely claimed were incurred by MVFD but, in fact, were expenses related to the business of PPE, including bills for various vendors of PPE. The indictment further alleges that PERROTTI opened a Home Depot credit card account in the name of the MVFD and used it to purchase items related to his business, including electrical wires, breakers and wire. In addition, he used an MVFD debit card to withdraw cash for himself and to make purchases not related to the MVFD, including purchases for food and gas. In total, it is alleged that PERROTTI embezzled more than $70,000 from the MVFD. The charge of theft concerning programs receiving federal funds carries a maximum term of imprisonment of 10 years. U.S. Attorney Daly stressed that an indictment is not evidence of guilt. Charges are only allegations, and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. This matter is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Sarah Karwan. The case is assigned to U.S. District Judge Jeffrey Alker Meyer in Bridgeport.
corruption INDIANAPOLIS—Acting United States Attorney, Josh J. Minkler announced today that Alan Mizen, 59, the former Chief Financial Officer for Center Township, Marion County, IN. will plead guilty to federal public corruption charges. The information charging theft from programs receiving federal funds and Mizen’s plea agreement were filed today. “The public deserves to have public officials whom they can trust to do the right thing,” said Minkler. “When that trust is betrayed, be assured, the United States Attorney’s Office will hold them accountable. The agreement and charges filed today accomplish that goal.” According to court documents, on June 10, 2010, Mizen signed on to the computer system for Center Township and created an invoice for a check in the amount of $343,541.08 which was purportedly payable to the Treasurer of the State of Indiana. On June 16, 2010 he wrote a check for the same amount from the Center Township’s bank account to “Attorney’s General Clearing Tr.” Mizen signed the check and deposited it into a new account he had created at PNC Bank. Mizen then transferred the funds that he deposited into the PNC Bank account to various personal accounts that he maintained. From the personal accounts, Mizen used over $200,000 to help purchase a residence in Zionsville, purchase a Toyota Tacoma pickup truck, fund his child’s college education, finance personal vacations, purchase a diamond necklace and diamond ring for $8,900 during a trip to the Cayman Islands, and make other consumer purchases. Mizen’s used taxpayer funds to finance these personal expenditures from June 10, 2010 through July 2012. Mizen must make pay restitution for the full amount of $343,541 to Center Township. In his signed plea agreement, Mizen agrees to use the proceeds of the previously seized assets, to pay the restitution amount. Minkler explained this case was the result of outstanding law enforcement work by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Indiana State Board of Accounts and the Internal Revenue Service. All three agencies are partners in the U.S. Attorney’s Public Integrity Working Group, which was launched in April 2012 with the stated purpose of aggressively investigating allegations of public fraud, waste and abuse by public officials in Indiana. Anyone with information on public corruption is encouraged to contact the U.S. Attorney’s Office at (317) 229-2443. Federal Bureau of Investigation Special Agent in Charge W. Jay Abbott said, “Citizens are owed integrity at all levels of government.” Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation Special Agent in Charge James C. Lee stated, “When public officials commit crimes, whether as part of their official duties or in their private lives, they are violating the public trust. IRS-Criminal Investigation helps ensure that all Americans, including public officials, are held to the same standard.” According to Senior Litigation Counsel, Bradley A. Blackington, who is prosecuting the case for the government, Mizen could be sentenced to up to ten years in federal prison, pay a $250,000 fine and serve three years of federal supervised release. No sentencing date has been set.
corruption JACKSON, MS—Christopher B. Epps, former Commissioner for the Mississippi Department of Corrections, and Cecil McCrory, a former Mississippi legislator, former Justice Court Judge, former Chairman of the Rankin County School Board, and a local businessman, were arraigned today before U.S. Magistrate Judge F. Keith Ball on a 49-count indictment returned by a federal grand jury, announced Acting U.S. Attorney Harold Brittain, FBI Special Agent in Charge Donald Alway, IRS-Criminal Investigation Special Agent in Charge Gabriel L. Grchan, U.S. Postal Inspector in Charge Robert Wemyss, and Mississippi State Auditor Stacey Pickering. CRIMINAL CHARGES IN THE INDICTMENT: COUNTS CHARGE PRISON FINE SUPERVISED RELEASE 1 Honest Services Wire Fraud Conspiracy 18 U.S.C. § 1349 20 years $250,000 3 years 2-13 (Epps only) Bribery 18 U.S.C. § 666(a)(1)(B) 10 years $250,000 3 years 14-22 (McCrory only) Bribery 18 U.S.C. § 666(a)(2) 10 years $250,000 3 years 23 Money Laundering Conspiracy 18 U.S.C. § 1956(h) 20 years greater of twice the value of property involved or $500,000 3 years 24-27 Honest Services Wire Fraud 18 U.S.C. §§ 1343, 1346 20 years $250,000 3 years COUNTS CHARGE PRISON FINE SUPERVISED RELEASE 28-41 Illegal Structuring of Financial Transactions 31 U.S.C. § 5324(a)(3) 5 years $250,000 $100,000 42-43 Money Laundering 18 U.S.C. § 1956(a)(1)(B)(i) 20 years greater of twice the value of property involved or $500,000 3 years 44-49 Filing False Tax Returns 26 U.S.C. § 7206(2) 3 years $100,000 1 year FACTS OF THE CASE: According to the indictment, from 2007 through March 2014, McCrory gave Epps bribes and kickbacks in exchange for Epps awarding or directing the award of MDOC contracts, leases, or work to McCrory’s companies or to companies employing McCrory as a consultant. McCrory secretly paid Epps either in cash, through checks paying off Epps’s home mortgage, through wire transfers paying the loan on Epps’s beach condominium, or through wire transfers to investment accounts owned by Epps. Epps illegally structured the deposits of cash received from McCrory into Epps’s various bank accounts, or used such cash to purchase cashier’s checks, all in amounts less than $10,000. This structuring alone reached almost $1 million from January 2008 through June 2014. Epps further concealed these crimes by filing false tax returns from 2008 through 2013, whereby he failed to report such income on his tax returns. In addition, the government has placed a lien on and is seeking to forfeit Epps’s home in Flowood, Mississippi, and his condominium in Pass Christian, Mississippi. The government also seized Epps’s 2010 Mercedes Benz S550 and 2007 Mercedes Benz S65 V12 a.m.G, as well as almost $1 million in cash from various bank and investment accounts controlled by Epps. Harold Brittain, the Acting U.S. Attorney in this case, stated: “The abuse of power and position by public officials has plagued our state for many years. Our tolerance for public corruption is zero. We will hold accountable under the law everyone who bears the responsibility of public service and sells the trust that has been bestowed upon them. We will not tolerate such fraud and abuses by public officials that have cost our citizens so dearly.” “By statute, the FBI is charged with the investigation of public officials alleged to abuse their positions for private gain,” stated Donald Alway, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI in Mississippi. “This remains a top priority. Mississippi has the right to expect honest, unbiased service and representation from its elected and/or appointed officials at all levels of government. The FBI will continue to work in cooperation with its federal, state, and local partners to identify, investigate, and prosecute those who would violate the public’s trust.” IRS Criminal Investigation Special Agent in Charge Gabriel L. Grchan said: “Quite often crimes of greed include more than concealing income from the IRS. This case is a prime example of how Special Agents of IRS Criminal Investigation work with the FBI, the United States Attorney’s Office and local law enforcement to bring individuals who have violated the public’s trust to justice. We will continue to work tirelessly with our partners to stop those individuals who scheme and conspire with each other to benefit themselves to the detriment of other citizens and their government. This case should send a strong message to the citizens of Mississippi, and those engaged in public corruption, that there is no place to hide and justice will ultimately be served. “ “Postal Inspectors have a long history of relentlessly pursuing those who use the mail in schemes to defraud the public, and public corruption cases like this are particularly troubling,” said U.S. Postal Inspector in Charge Robert Wemyss. “We are grateful to have been able to lend our unique expertise to investigate the fraud and to track down assets the defendants allegedly attempted to steal from the American people.” The Mississippi Office of the State Auditor assisted with the investigation. Commenting on the indictments, State Auditor Stacey Pickering said, “It is a very sad day in Mississippi when two men with a history of public service are charged with blatantly committing crimes to increase their personal fortunes. They are accused of deliberately violating public trust while serving in positions of leadership. This case is a textbook example of state, local and federal officials working together to protect taxpayer money.” In announcing the indictment, Acting U.S. Attorney Harold Brittain, FBI Special Agent in Charge Donald Alway, IRS-Criminal Investigation Special Agent in Charge Gabriel L. Grchan, U.S. Postal Inspector in Charge Robert Wemyss, and Mississippi State Auditor Stacey Pickering praised the efforts of special agents with the FBI, IRS-Criminal Investigations, U.S. Postal Inspection Service, and the Mississippi State Auditor’s Office, as well as the Leake County Sheriff’s Office. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Mike Hurst, Darren LaMarca, and Scott Gilbert, as well as financial analyst Kim Mitchell, are prosecuting the case. Criminal indictments are only charges and not evidence of guilt. A defendant is presumed to be innocent until and unless proven guilty.
corruption U.S. Attorney Kenneth A. Polite announced that TRACIE MEDUS, age 39, a New Orleans Police Department police officer, was charged yesterday with theft of government funds. According to the New Orleans Police Department, MEDUS has been placed on unpaid emergency suspension pending the outcome of this case. According to the Bill of Information, from in or about July 2009 to in or about March 2011, MEDUS stole $158,700 from the Louisiana Road Home’s Small Rental Property Program. MEDUS obtained the funds in the form of an award funded by the Department of Housing and Urban Development. If convicted, MEDUS faces up to ten years’ incarceration and a fine of up to twice the theft amount. U.S. Attorney Polite reiterated that a Bill of Information is merely a charge and that the guilt of the defendant must be proven beyond a reasonable doubt. U.S. Attorney Polite praised the work of the Department of Housing and Urban Development—Office of Inspector General and the Federal Bureau of Investigation in investigating this matter and thanked the New Orleans Police Department’s Public Integrity Bureau and the Internal Revenue Service’s Criminal Investigation Division for their assistance. Assistant U.S. Attorney Chandra Menon is in charge of the prosecution.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—Christopher Saravello, 37, of Philadelphia, PA, was charged by indictment, unsealed today, in a scheme to extort drugs and money from drug dealers and drug buyers while working as a Philadelphia Police Officer, announced United States Attorney Zane David Memeger. He is charged with one count of conspiracy to commit Hobbs Act extortion and five counts of Hobbs Act extortion. He was arrested this morning. According to the indictment, between November 2011 and June 2012, while employed as a Philadelphia Police Officer assigned to the 6th District, Saravello conspired with others, known to the grand jury, to rob drug dealers and drug buyers of cash and Oxycontin and other controlled substances. It is alleged that Saravello’s co-conspirators would alert him to a drug sale or drug buy. Saravello would then allegedly interrupt the planned drug transaction, identifying himself as a law enforcement officer by approaching the transaction in a marked police vehicle, wearing a police uniform, displaying an official badge and identification, or verbally identifying himself as a police officer. The indictment alleges that Saravello seized the narcotics being sold by the drug seller or the money being paid by the drug buyer and shared the drugs and/or money seized with his co-conspirators. In doing so, Saravello used his status as a law enforcement officer to seize the controlled substance and/or money from the drug seller or buyer. The alleged conspiracy resulted in the illegal taking of more than $9,800 in drug money and quantities of Oxycontin and other narcotics. If convicted of all charges, Saravello faces a maximum possible sentence of 120 years in prison, $1.25 million fine, three years of supervised release and a $600 special assessment. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Philadelphia Police Department and is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Arlene Fisk.
corruption LITTLE ROCK—Christopher R. Thyer, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Arkansas, along with David T. Resch, Special Agent in Charge of the Little Rock Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) announced today that former Arkansas State Police Lieutenant Sedrick L. Reed, age 44, was sentenced to 135 months in prison for his role in a conspiracy to distribute and to possess with intent to distribute cocaine. The charge stemmed from an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s ArkTrust Public Corruption Task Force with the full cooperation of the Arkansas State Police. The investigation was also referred to as Organized Crime and Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF) operation “Diverted Justice.” “Citizens of the Eastern District of Arkansas deserve to know that their law enforcement members are trustworthy law abiding citizens and when they are not, they will be held accountable for their illegal actions,” stated Thyer. “This sentence demonstrates that violating the public trust is taken seriously.” Reed was charged in a five-count indictment handed down by a grand jury on August 7, 2013. On July 30, 2014, Reed pleaded guilty to participating in a conspiracy to distribute and to possess with intent to distribute controlled substances. The United States dismissed the remaining four counts against Reed upon acceptance of the guilty plea. Reed faced a potential sentence of not less than 10 years and up to life imprisonment; not less than five years and up to life supervised release; up to a $10 million fine, and a $100 special assessment. Reed also agreed to the forfeiture of bank accounts, real property, firearms, vehicles, and more than $30,000 in cash constituting proceeds of his illegal conduct. At his plea hearing before U.S. District Court Judge Billy Roy Wilson, Reed admitted in open court to participating in a conspiracy to distribute between five and fifteen kilograms of cocaine between 2006 and 2013. Reed admitted that he abused a position of public trust in a manner that significantly facilitated the conspiracy. Reed also admitted to possessing a firearm during the conspiracy. Reed admitted to diverting drugs from a traffic stop and taking drugs from the ASP evidence locker. Reed further admitted that during the course of the conspiracy, he profited in excess of $200,000 from the resale of these stolen drugs. The investigation was conducted by the FBI’s ArkTrust Public Corruption Task Force. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Julie Peters and Chris Givens. The remaining defendant in the indictment, Lamont Johnson, is set for trial before Judge Wilson on February 3, 2015. An indictment contains only allegations. A defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption COLUMBUS, OH—Ohio State Representative Dale Mallory, 49, of Cincinnati, Ohio, pleaded guilty today in the Franklin County Court of Common Pleas to one count of filing a false financial disclosure statement and one count of acceptance of prohibited gratuities from a legislative agent. Kevin R. Cornelius, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Cincinnati Division, Ron O’Brien, Franklin County Prosecuting Attorney, and Tony Bledsoe, Ohio Legislative Inspector General, announced the pleas entered today before Franklin County Judge Patrick Sheeran. According to court documents, the violations involve filing a false financial disclosure statement in 2010 with the Joint Legislative Ethics Committee (JLEC) of the Ohio General Assembly. Mallory failed to list a registered legislative agent as a source of a ticket to a professional football game and meals and beverages he received in 2009. Mallory also knowingly accepted gifts of professional sporting tickets in excess of $75 from a registered legislative agent in 2013. This legal action resulted from an investigation by the FBI’s Public Corruption Task Force into payday lending legislative proposals. The investigation previously led to the separate convictions of former state representatives Carlton Weddington and Clayton Luckie, registered lobbyist George Glover and former registered lobbyist John Rabenold. This investigation was conducted by agents from the FBI and the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation (BCI) who are part of the FBI Cincinnati Division’s Public Corruption Task Force in Columbus. The case was prosecuted by Franklin County Prosecuting Attorney Ron O’Brien and Assistant Franklin County Prosecutor Jeff Blake. Follow the FBI’s Cincinnati Field Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s Cincinnati Field Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption TEXARKANA, AR—Conner Eldridge, United States Attorney for the Western District of Arkansas, announced that Keesha Rose, age 37, pleaded guilty today to Theft Concerning Programs Receiving Federal Funds. Rose serves as the County Treasurer and Tax Collector for Lafayette County. The Honorable Harry F. Barnes accepted the plea in the United States District Court in Texarkana. U.S. Attorney Eldridge commented, “We remain committed to investigating and prosecuting public officials that abuse the trust placed in them by embezzling public funds. Such conduct offends taxpayers and citizens as well as the vast majority of public officials who are truly dedicated to their service.” “Criminal acts by our public officials, such as those committed by Ms. Rose, undermine the trust necessary in our democracy,” stated David T. Resch, Special Agent in Charge for the Federal Bureau of Investigation in Little Rock, “We will continue working closely with the Arkansas State Police and the U.S. Attorney’s office to investigate and prosecute such violations.” Facts in the case according to court records are that Keesha Rose was elected as Treasurer and Tax Collector for Lafayette County, Arkansas in November, 2010 and was responsible for collection and administration of all funds collected and disbursed on behalf of Lafayette County. Lafayette County received benefits in excess of $10,000 under a Federal program for the both 2011 and 2012. On May 31, 2013, The Arkansas Division of Legislative Audit reported that a comparison of cash receipts to cash bank deposits revealed that $162,275.00 was not deposited in the county’s bank accounts by Rose for a period of January 1, 2011 through September 20, 2012. The auditors noted numerous issues with accounting processes and recordkeeping that were consistent with the embezzlement of funds. In addition to the $162,275.00, auditors determined that for the time period between September 20, 2012 and November 7, 2013, an additional $81,618 in public funds was embezzled by Rose, bringing the total to $243,893.00. On March 19, 2014, a Federal Grand Jury issued an indictment against Rose charging her with two counts of theft of a program receiving federal funds in excess of at least $5,000. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Arkansas State Police. Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Ross is prosecuting the case for the United States.
corruption CHARLESTON, WV—United States Attorney Booth Goodwin filed an information in federal court in Charleston today against Russell R. Grimmett, also known as Rick Grimmett, for violating federal banking laws. Banks are required by federal law to report all cash transactions in excess of $10,000. Grimmett and an associate withdrew cash from the Logan Bank and Trust in Man, West Virginia in amounts less than $10,000 to prevent triggering the reporting requirement. This practice, known as “structuring,” is a federal crime. Grimmett, the Logan County Assessor, faces up to five years of imprisonment and a fine of up to $250,000 if convicted. Today’s charge stems from an investigation conducted by the FBI, IRS Criminal Investigation, United States Postal Inspection Service, and the West Virginia State Police. Assistant United States Attorney Meredith George Thomas is handling the prosecution. An information is merely an accusation, and the defendant is presumed innocent until and unless convicted.
corruption WASHINGTON—The former mayor of the municipality of Río Grande, Puerto Rico, pleaded guilty today to soliciting and receiving approximately $39,000 in cash bribes from a contractor who sought to be awarded three construction inspection contracts with the municipality of Río Grande. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodríguez-Vélez of the District of Puerto Rico and Special Agent in Charge Carlos Cases of the FBI’s San Juan Division made the announcement. According to his plea agreement, Eduard Rivera-Correa, 61, while mayor of Río Grande in early 2010, requested that a contractor make regular kickback payments in exchange for the award of three construction inspection contracts worth a total of $329,000. After the contracts were awarded and while payments were being disbursed by the municipality, the contractor delivered envelopes containing approximately $39,000 in cash to Rivera-Correa’s office and placed them in his drawer. Rivera-Correa pleaded guilty before U.S. Magistrate Judge Marcos E. López to one count of bribery. Rivera-Correa was arrested on July 10, 2014, after being indicted by a federal grand jury. His sentencing will be scheduled at a later date. In his plea agreement, Rivera-Correa admitted to obstructing justice by threatening the contractor who paid him bribes. On or about April 16, 2012, in a recorded conversation, Rivera-Correa threatened the contractor in an effort to intimidate him and dissuade him from cooperating with law enforcement. This case was investigated by the FBI and is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Charles R. Walsh of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Criminal Chief Jose Ruíz of the District of Puerto Rico. The Puerto Rico Office of Government Ethics provided assistance in the investigation.
corruption WASHINGTON—In Seon Lim, a former contracting official for the U.S. Department of the Army, was sentenced today to four years in prison for his role in a scheme in which he accepted over $490,000 worth of benefits, including cash payments and vacations, from favored contractors. In return, he helped these businesses obtain millions of dollars in federal contracts. The sentencing was announced by Ronald C. Machen Jr., U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia; Dana J. Boente, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia; Andrew G. McCabe, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office; Thomas J. Kelly, Special Agent in Charge of the Washington Field Office of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI); Peggy E. Gustafson, Inspector General for the Small Business Administration (SBA); Robert E. Craig, Jr., Special Agent in Charge of the Mid-Atlantic Field Office of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS), and Frank Robey, Director of the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command’s Major Procurement Fraud Unit (MPFU). Lim, 48, of Fairfax Station, Va., also known as InSeon Lim, pled guilty in July 2014 in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia to three offenses: conspiracy to commit bribery and honest services wire fraud; bribery; and attempting to interfere with and impede tax laws. He was sentenced by the Honorable Leonie M. Brinkema. Upon completion of his prison term, Lim will be placed on three years of supervised release. He also must pay restitution, including $250,000 to the Department of Defense and nearly $125,000 to the IRS. In addition, he must pay a forfeiture money judgment of $490,262. Lim is among 18 individuals and one corporation, Nova Datacom, LLC, to plead guilty to federal charges in an investigation that uncovered the largest domestic bribery and bid-rigging scheme in the history of federal contracting cases. Overall, participants in the scheme stole over $30 million in government money through inflated and fictitious invoices. According to a statement of offense, signed by Lim as well as the government, Lim was a public official until April 2012. The charges involve his activities as an assistant project manager and product director with the Program Executive Office Enterprise Information Systems, a part of the Army that provides infrastructure and informational management systems. Until June 2010, Lim resided and worked in Seoul, South Korea. While in South Korea, his primary duties were to oversee and implement communications systems upgrades for the U.S. forces there, which included approximately 10 communications centers and various other special projects at military sites throughout the country. Among other things, Lim coordinated work on a major contract, which, in turn, had numerous sub-contracts. From June 2010 until his resignation in April 2012, Lim worked as a product director at Fort Belvoir, Va. In the statement of offense, Lim admits that he secretly used his official position to enrich himself by soliciting and accepting gifts, payments and other things of value from government contractors—totaling more than $490,000—in return for favorable official action. Among other things, the statement of offense notes, Lim received payments personally and to accounts that he controlled; payments for travel, vacation, vehicles, cellphones and cellular service for himself and family members; ownership interests in two companies, and other benefits. In exchange, Lim now admits, he provided favorable official action on subcontracts obtained and retained by the favored government contractors as requested and as opportunities arose. He also disclosed confidential bid information to the favored government contractors. ** “This Army official sold the public trust for a half-million dollars in bribes,” said U.S. Attorney Machen. “Lim is now headed to prison along with many other corrupt officials and government contractors brought down in this sweeping investigation. His fate is a warning shot for other government officials tempted to sell out the American people to line their own pockets that they should think twice. The prison sentences handed out in this case make clear that government officials and business people who corrupt the contracting process put their own freedom at risk.” “In his role as a federal contracting officer, In Seon Lim betrayed the trust that was placed in him by fellow citizens by taking bribes in exchange for providing favorable action on government contracts,” said Assistant Director in Charge McCabe. “The FBI, with our partners, will continue to investigate and expose fraudulent kickback schemes that tarnish the good and ethical work that procurement officers carry out on behalf of the U.S. government each and every day.” “The kickback scheme in which In Seon Lim participated disrespected the hard work and dedication of thousands of government employees who are committed to providing honest services in the federal contracting process,” said Special Agent in Charge Kelly. “IRS-Criminal Investigation stands committed to weeding out individuals, who abuse the privilege of their positions as a public official, for their personal gain.” “Today’s sentencing is a reminder that public servants are accountable for their actions, and individuals who violate the public’s trust will be brought to justice,” said Small Business Administration Inspector General Gustafson. “The actions of In Seon Lim and his conspirators grossly undermine the honest work being done every day by Federal employees and government contractors. I want to thank the U.S. Attorney’s Office for its dedicated leadership and professionalism in pursuit of justice served today.” “As a contracting official for the Department of Defense, In Seon Lim disregarded his duty, lived a lie at the expense of the American taxpayers, and completely violated the trust placed in him by his position,” said Special Agent in Charge Craig. “The Defense Criminal Investigative Service and our law enforcement partners are fully committed to aggressively investigating and prosecuting this kind of illegal activity within the federal procurement process.” “Mr. Lim admitted that he secretly used his official position to ‘enrich himself’ when committing these selfish criminal acts,” said Director Robey, of the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command’s Major Procurement Fraud Unit. “That attitude and the related criminal actions will not be tolerated in the Department of the Army. Let this again be a warning to all who work with and for the U.S. Army: if you commit contract fraud, we will catch you and do everything within our power to see you brought to justice, just like Mr. Lim.” ** The court documents provide details about numerous contracts and payments. For example: -Nova Datacom: According to the statement of offense, two former employees of the Northern Virginia company—Alex N. Cho, also known as Young N. Cho, and Nick Park—paid Lim $40,000 in cash in 2007. In addition, Park paid for Lim’s travel, lodging, meals and entertainment during a trip to the Philippines in 2007, and Cho paid for Lim’s lodging, $10,000 cash, and a $1,000 casino chip during a trip later that year to Las Vegas. Lim, meanwhile, agreed to use his official position to recommend the company for a contract valued at nearly $330,000. -Avenciatech:According to the statement of offense, former officials of Avenciatech, Inc., a government contractor based in Annandale, Va., provided Lim with cash payments; payments for hotel stays for Lim and family members, including a trip to the Atlantis resort in the Bahamas; payments to finance the purchase of a 2010 Lexus automobile, and payments for other things of value. One of the officials, Oh Sung Kwon, also known as Thomas Kwon, also assisted Lim in obtaining financing for the purchase of a home in Fairfax Station, Va., where Lim resided following his reassignment in 2010 to a position at Fort Belvoir. Lim, meanwhile, assisted the company in obtaining more than $3 million in contracts. -UEI: Nick Park left Nova Datacom in 2007 and co-founded another government contractor, Unisource Enterprise Inc. (UEI), based in Annandale, Va. According to the statement of offense, in exchange for favorable treatment, Lim was given a secret ownership in UEI. Among other things, Lim provided Park with sensitive procurement information. He also assisted the company in obtaining a government sub-contract worth over $1.1 million. Cho, Park, and Kwon are among those who earlier pled guilty to charges in the case. In addition to pleading guilty to the conspiracy and bribery charges, Lim admitted that he failed to report the bribes he received on tax returns for the years 2007 through 2011. He also failed to keep records that would allow him to file accurate records for 2012 and 2013. ** In announcing today’s sentence, U.S. Attorney Machen, U.S. Attorney Boente, Assistant Director in Charge McCabe, Special Agent in Charge Kelly, Inspector General Gustafson, Special Agent in Charge Craig, and Director Robey thanked those who investigated the case from the FBI’s Washington Field Office; the Washington Field Office of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation, the Office of the Inspector General for the Small Business Administration; the Department of Defense’s Defense Criminal Investigative Service; the Defense Contract Audit Agency, and the Army Criminal Investigation Command. They also expressed thanks to the U.S. Marshals Service for its assistance on the forfeiture matter. They also praised the efforts of those who prosecuted the case, including Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael K. Atkinson of the Fraud and Public Corruption Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Anthony Saler of the Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section, of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Jack Hanly, of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia. Finally, they expressed thanks for assistance provided by former Assistant U.S. Attorney Bryan Seeley; former Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher Dana; Forensic Accountant Maria Boodoo; Paralegal Specialists Tasha Harris, Krishawn Graham, and Taryn McLaughlin; and Legal Assistant Jessica McCormick, all of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia.
corruption Michael J. Moore, United States Attorney for the Middle District of Georgia announced that Marva Rice, the Probate Judge for Hancock County, entered a guilty plea on Thursday to two counts of Theft of Federal funds from Hancock County, which receives federal funds. Rice faces a maximum sentence of up to ten years’ imprisonment, a fine of up to $250,000, and up to three years of supervised release. Facts stipulated in the written plea agreements show the following: The Hancock Probate Judge was responsible for collecting fines and fees and for depositing those funds into the Probate Court bank account. An investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation revealed that in the year 2012, Rice failed to deposit funds in the amount of $43,864.70. In 2013, after the FBI was conducting its investigation, Rice used Hancock County funds to pay for her own personal legal fees, in the amount of $20,000. Sentencing will take place in approximately sixty days. “Election to public office is a sign of trust by the voters and the public in the integrity and honesty of those they choose to govern them. Theft of funds entrusted to you as an elected public official is not only a violation of that trust but erodes the faith of the people in government and elected officials generally. To steal further funds to defend yourself when caught is simply reprehensible,” said United States Attorney Michael J. Moore. J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated: “Today’s guilty plea will begin the process of holding Hancock County Probate Judge Rice responsible for her criminal actions involving the embezzlement of public funds. The FBI will continue to aggressively pursue any and all allegations of similar such conduct by public officials attempting to divert public funds to their own bank accounts.” The case was investigated by Special Agent Gregory McClendon of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Graham Thorpe. For additional information please contact Pamela Lightsey, Public Affairs Specialist, United States Attorney’s Office at (478) 621-2603.
corruption MEMPHIS, TN—Tammy Brooks Carpenter, age 41, of Memphis, TN, was indicted yesterday by a federal grand jury on the charge of embezzling monetary payments from customers who had been issued motor vehicle citations by the City of Memphis, announced Edward L. Stanton III, United States Attorney for the Western District of Tennessee. “As the indictment alleges, Tammy Brooks Carpenter orchestrated a scheme to enrich herself by embezzling and converting thousands of dollars of traffic ticket payments intended for City of Memphis coffers,” stated United States Attorney Stanton. “She then allegedly took her brazen scheme one step further by targeting and preying upon vulnerable members of the Hispanic community. As today’s arrest makes clear, we will not tolerate corrupt public officials, and will do everything in our power to hold them accountable.” The one-count indictment alleges that beginning in December 2012 and continuing until December 2013, Carpenter, an employee of the Memphis City Court Clerk’s office whose duties included accepting payments from customers who had been issued motor vehicle citations, would accept payment and enter the transactions into the Electronic Ticket Information System (ETIMS) which created a record of the payment. Carpenter would then void the original payment and enter a smaller amount into the ETIMS system, converting the remaining funds for her personal use. During the course of one year, Carpenter allegedly voided approximately 188 citations and embezzled approximately $24,000. Of the 188 citations voided by Carpenter, approximately 183 of the victims had a Hispanic surname. The federal statute, Title 18 United States Code, Section 666(a)(1)(A), Carpenter has been charged with violating makes it a crime to embezzle money from a local government entity that receives federal assistance in excess of $10,000 during a 12 month period. If convicted she faces up to 10 years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000. This investigation was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Memphis Police Department and the Tarnished Badge Task Force. This case is being prosecuted for the government by Assistant United States Attorney Brian K. Coleman. The charges and allegations contained in the indictment are merely accusations, and the defendant is considered innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—Dorian Parsley, 44, of Philadelphia, formerly a dispatcher with the Philadelphia Police Department (PPD), was sentenced today to 14 months in prison for conspiracy, solicitation of a bribe, and honest services fraud in connection with a scheme by which she gave an unfair advantage to certain tow truck operators in exchange for cash bribes. Parsley pleaded guilty to the charges on July 21, 2014. In addition to the prison term, U.S. District Court Judge Eduardo C. Robreno ordered a $1,000 fine, one year of supervised release, and a $300 special assessment. Between February 2011 and December 2013, Parsley operated a bribery scheme through which she collected weekly payments totaling more than $35,000 from three tow truck operators, now her co-defendants, in exchange for providing them with certain confidential information, including accident and disabled vehicle locations, and the personal identifying information of accident victims. Parsley did this by secretly sending text messages from her personal cellphone, in a purposeful end-run around PPD policies and procedures. In this way, the defendant provided an unfair economic advantage to her bribers, at the expense of other tow truck operators who relied on the proper functioning of the PPD’s rotational towing program. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Philadelphia Police Department. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Kevin Brenner and Jennifer Chun Barry.
corruption CHICAGO—Nearly three ounces of marijuana was confiscated after it was found hidden inside two sandwiches that a Cook County corrections officer allegedly tried to smuggle into the Cook County Jail last year in exchange for a $200 bribe. As a result of that seizure and an allegedly broader conspiracy, the corrections officer, three inmates, two civilians, and a Chicago police dispatcher are facing federal charges in connection with alleged smuggling of marijuana and other contraband into the jail, sheriff’s department and federal law enforcement officials announced today. In June 2013, three jail inmates allegedly conspired with two civilian women to bribe JASON MAREK, a corrections officer for the Cook County Department of Corrections since May 2011, to bring marijuana, cigarettes, tobacco, alcohol, food and other contraband into the jail for inmates’ consumption and for further distribution within the jail, according to a threecount criminal complaint that was filed yesterday and unsealed today. According to the charges, an ounce of marijuana, which sells for approximately $200 outside the jail, could be sold for five times as much, or $1,000, inside the jail. Marek, also known as “Murder” and “Murda,” 29, formerly of Orland Park, was assigned to the 3 to 11 p.m. shift at CCJ, Division 9, Tier 2H, when the alleged marijuana smuggling was thwarted on June 21, 2013. He was arrested this morning and was released on his own recognizance after appearing before U.S. Magistrate Judge Jeffrey T. Gilbert in Federal Court. Between June 15 and 24, 2013, three jail inmates—THADIEUS GOODS, PRINCE JOHNSON, and LAVANGELIST POWELL—who were housed in the same tier where Marek was assigned, allegedly conspired with two women to bribe Marek to smuggle the marijuana and other contraband into the jail. During a recorded telephone call from the jail on June 15, 2013, Goods told his wife, PEARLISA STEVENSON, that, with her help, he had the opportunity to make some money by selling marijuana inside the jail as long as he also had a corrections officer willing to help him. “Rooting out corruption in the Cook County Jail is a top priority of mine,” said Cook County Sheriff Thomas J. Dart. “I’m thankful to our federal partners at the FBI and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for working closely with my staff to conduct such a thorough investigation and to charge this far-reaching case.” The arrests and charges were announced by Sheriff Dart, together with Zachary T. Fardon, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois, and Robert J. Holley, Special Agent-in-Charge of the Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The investigation was a joint effort between the FBI and the Sheriff’s Office of Professional Responsibility, with Sheriff Dart’s full support, to improve the security and integrity within the Cook County Jail. Goods, also known as “Big Weasy,” “Weasy,” and “Wang,” 36, of Calumet Park; Johnson, aka “Primo,” 32; and Powell, aka “JuJu” and “Juicy,” 22, both of Chicago, remain in state custody and will be transferred to face the federal charges on a date yet to be determined. Stevenson, aka “Wang Wang,” 29, and NATOSHA McCOLLUM, aka “Tasha,” 21, who is Powell’s girlfriend, both of Chicago, were arrested this morning and were released on their own recognizance after appearing before Magistrate Gilbert. Those six defendants ― Marek, Goods, Johnson, Powell, Stevenson, and McCollum ― were charged with conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute marijuana. The seventh defendant, STEPHANIE LEWIS, 40, of Chicago, a “supervisor police operations” in the police dispatch group in the city of Chicago’s Office of Emergency Management and Communications, and who is Johnson’s girlfriend, was arrested last night. She was charged with one count of illegally accessing a law enforcement computer to assist the alleged extortion and drug distribution conspiracy. Lewis and three others ― Powell, Johnson, and McCollum ― were also charged with conspiracy to access a law enforcement computer to further extortion and a drug conspiracy. Lewis was also released on her own recognizance. Marek, Stevenson, McCollum, and Lewis were each ordered to return to court at 9:30 a.m. Friday for a status hearing before Magistrate Gilbert. According to a 48-page complaint affidavit, Goods and Powell pre-sold marijuana to inmates within the CCJ. In June 2013, inmates transferred funds to Stevenson and McCollum via the jail’s Inmate Trust Account system, allegedly to purchase marijuana and other contraband, which Goods, Powell, and Johnson expected to be brought into the jail. After collecting the money from other inmates, McCollum and Stevenson discussed with Goods and Powell their efforts to purchase marijuana from drug dealers outside the jail. Johnson and Lewis allegedly coordinated the delivery of contraband to Stevenson for delivery into the jail, and on June 21, 2013, Stevenson delivered the marijuana and other banned goods to Marek. At the same time, McCollum and Stevenson paid Marek a $200 bribe to smuggle the contraband into the jail. Marek attempted to deliver the marijuana to Goods but was intercepted by the FBI and the Sheriff’s Department’s Office of Professional Responsibility as he entered the jail. After Marek failed to deliver the marijuana and contraband, Goods, Powell, and Johnson allegedly worked with McCollum and Lewis to obtain Marek’s home address and information about his family to threaten Marek and convince him to bring additional contraband into the jail. Johnson allegedly contacted Lewis and, after informing her that Marek had accepted a bribe but failed to deliver the goods, asked Lewis to provide Marek’s personal information, including his home address and names of family members because Johnson and Goods planned to send their associates to Marek’s house. After receiving Marek’s license plate number from McCollum, Lewis allegedly conducted an inquiry of Marek’s license plate on an OEMC computer linked to an Illinois State Police database, which queried the National Crime Information Center database, and Lewis then provided Marek’s home address to Johnson, the complaint alleges. In June 2013, Good, Powell, and Johnson were housed in the jail’s Division 9, Tier 2H, where Marek was assigned for a 90-day rotation. Tier 2H is located on the second floor of the south tower of Division 9, which is located at 2834 West 31st St., Chicago, and is comprised of two interconnected three-story buildings that house general population male inmates with a maximum security classification. Each count of the complaint carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. If convicted, the Court must impose a reasonable sentence under federal statutes and the advisory United States Sentencing Guidelines. The government is being represented by Assistant United States Attorneys Megan Church and Michelle Nasser. The public is reminded that a complaint contains only charges and is not evidence of guilt. The defendants are presumed innocent and are entitled to a fair trial at which the government has the burden of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption TRENTON, NJ—Two Newark men today admitted their involvement in a scheme to smuggle contraband, including marijuana and cell phones, into the Essex County Jail, a federal pretrial detention facility, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Darsell Davis, 29, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Mary L. Cooper to an information charging him with one count of conspiring with others to commit extortion under color of official right. Dwayne Harper, 30, pleaded guilty before Judge Cooper to an information charging him with one count of conspiring to smuggle contraband into the Essex County Jail. Davis has been released on bail and Harper remains in custody. According to the documents filed in this case and other cases and statements made in court: On multiple occasions between September 2013 and May 2014, Stephon Solomon, 26, a corrections officer at the Essex County Jail, smuggled contraband—including cell phones, tobacco, and marijuana—to Quasim Nichols, 29, a federal pretrial detainee at the Essex County Jail, in exchange for cash bribes. Davis and Harper aided the smuggling scheme by collecting the contraband to be smuggled into the jail. After receiving contraband and cash bribes from Davis, Solomon smuggled the contraband to Nichols, who ultimately sold some of the marijuana and cell phones to other inmates. The inmates purchased the contraband by having friends and family send Western Union money transfers to Nichols, who then enlisted Davis and others to retrieve those payments for him. Davis obtained at least $4,300 in Western Union payments over the course of the conspiracy. Charges against Nichols are still pending. The charges and allegations against Nichols are merely accusations, and the defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. Solomon pleaded guilty on Oct. 1, 2014, to one count of conspiring to commit extortion under color of official right and awaits sentencing on Jan. 21, 2015. He has been released on bail. The charge of conspiring to commit extortion under color of official right, to which Davis pleaded guilty, carries a maximum potential penalty of 20 years in prison and a maximum fine of $250,000. Davis also will forfeit $4,300, consisting of his proceeds from the conspiracy. The charge of conspiring to provide contraband, including marijuana, to inmates at the Essex County Jail, to which Harper pleaded guilty, carries a maximum potential penalty of five years in prison and a maximum fine of $250,000. Davis and Harper are set to be sentenced before Judge Cooper on Feb. 11, 2015, and Feb. 4, 2015, respectively. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford in Newark, and investigators with the Internal Affairs Division of the Essex County Jail, under the leadership of Warden Roy Hendricks, with the investigation leading to today’s guilty pleas. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Rahul Agarwal of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division and Robert Frazer of the Criminal Division, Organized Crime/Gangs Unit, in Newark.
corruption U.S. Attorney Kenneth A. Polite announced that STACEY JACKSON, age 47, a resident of New Orleans, Louisiana, was sentenced today for her role in a conspiracy to steal federal funds and demand kickbacks from a program receiving federal funds. U.S. District Judge Mary Ann Vial Lemmon sentenced JACKSON to 60 months’ imprisonment, followed by three years of supervised release. JACKSON was also ordered to pay over $424,000 in restitution to Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) and to individual victims, as well as a $50,000 fine. According to court documents, JACKSON, the former Executive Director of New Orleans Affordable Homeownership (“NOAH”), a city agency and non-profit corporation, conspired with EARL MYERS, TRELLIS SMITH, and others to misuse and personally benefit from federal funds that NOAH had received, in violation of the law. HUD both before and after Hurricane Katrina, had provided grant money to the City of New Orleans to address blight within the city and to remediate homes damaged by the storm. JACKSON, as the Executive Director of NOAH, was responsible for the day-to-day management of the agency and determined how much each contractor would be paid. JACKSON arranged to overpay certain contractors, such as MYERS and SMITH, instructing them to kickback portions of the overpayments toJACKSON’S benefit. Specifically, court documents state that on numerous occasions, JACKSON instructed MYERS and SMITH to pay her kickbacks out of the NOAH money she paid them for work that could not be substantiated by invoices or work actually performed. For example, in or near October 2005, JACKSON, wrote a check from NOAH to Parish Dubuclet, a company operated by her friend, SMITH, for approximately $15,260, which was deposited into a bank account belonging to Smith and Parish Dubuclet. On or about October 8, 2005, Parish Dubuclet wrote a check in the amount of $10,460 to JACKSON’Sfather, which was deposited into a bank account that JACKSON, controlled jointly with her father. Several days later, JACKSON used this money to write a check to a tree removal service to pay for the removal of a tree from her mother’s yard. Court documents state that from in or near December of 2006 through in or near July of 2007, JACKSONcontracted with MYERS to renovate properties that she owned, which were located on 6th Street and Danneel Street in New Orleans, Louisiana. JACKSON paid MYERS tens of thousands of dollars toward the renovation project and used public funds belonging to the United States and distributed to NOAH to pay MYERS a portion of the money she owed him for these renovations. Documents in the court records also outline that on or about November 1, 2007, JACKSON wrote two checks to companies owned and operated by MYERS. One check was for $47,899.50 to MYERS & Sons. JACKSON instructed MYERS to give portions of this money to different entities, such as a school thatJACKSON was affiliated with. The second check for $32,842.50 was payable to Excel Development, also owned and operated by MYERS. JACKSON directed MYERS to kickback a portion of this money to her by having him write two checks, one for $9,400 and one for $7,000 payable to Z.F., a person whoJACKSON knew personally and to whose checking account she had access. MYERS complied with these instructions because he knew it would ensure that he would continue getting NOAH remediation work assignments from JACKSON. Also according to court documents, on or around August 13, 14, and 15, 2008, after JACKSON became aware that MYERS had received a subpoena from a federal grand jury ordering him to turn over documents supporting the work he had done for NOAH, JACKSON provided false and fraudulent documents to MYERS in an effort to mislead the federal grand jury into finding that no fraud occurred at the defendant’s direction or while she was the Executive Director of NOAH. “Stacey Jackson’s criminal conduct was particularly despicable, as it prevented our most disadvantaged residents from receiving much-needed assistance as they struggled to rebuild their lives following Hurricane Katrina,” stated U.S. Attorney Kenneth Polite. “Of course, our entire region suffers as well, as her corruption perpetuates entrenched stereotypes about our public officials and further erodes public trust in our government. The court appropriately imposed the statutory maximum sentence of five years in prison, along with full restitution to her victims and a significant fine.” “In the aftermath of the convictions and sentencings of former Mayor Ray Nagin and Ms. Jackson, the FBI and its law enforcement partners will continue their tireless pursuit of all those who unlawfully financially capitalize upon the Katrina tragedy event as its 10-year anniversary nears,” stated Michael Anderson, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation, New Orleans Field Office. IRS-Criminal Investigation Special Agent in Charge Gabriel L. Grchan said, “We are pleased with the announcement of today’s sentence. Ms. Jackson will now be held accountable for using a public trust position to bill the citizens of New Orleans for work that was never performed. This investigation is a prime example of how Special Agents of IRS Criminal Investigation work with the FBI and the United States Attorney’s Office to bring individuals involved in fraud to justice. We will continue to work tirelessly with our law enforcement partners to stop those individuals who scheme and conspire with each other to benefit themselves to the detriment of other citizens and their government.” “This sentencing was the result of outstanding investigative work conducted by HUD-OIG, and our law enforcement partners,” stated Wyatt J. Achord, Assistant Special Agent in Charge, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development-Office of Inspector General. “This collaborative effort sends a clear message that if someone steals from government subsidized programs, or intentionally misdirects funds for their personal gain, they will be prosecuted to the full extent of the law.” “I am pleased that the New Orleans Office of Inspector General was able to assist our federal partners in gathering evidence for this prosecution,” said New Orleans IG Ed Quatrevaux. U.S. Attorney Polite praised the work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of Housing and Urban Development—Office of Inspector General, the Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation, and the City of New Orleans—Office of Inspector General. The U.S. Attorney’s Office would also like to acknowledge the assistance of the Metropolitan Crime Commission. Assistant U.S. Attorney and Senior Litigation Counsel Fred P. Harper, Jr. and Assistant U.S. Attorney Sharan Lieberman are in charge of the prosecution.
corruption TOPEKA, KS—The former city clerk of Auburn, Kan., was sentenced Friday to one year and a day in federal prison and ordered to pay more than $189,500 in restitution, U.S. Attorney Barry Grissom said. Alice Riley, 61, Mayetta, Kan., pleaded guilty to one count of interstate transportation of stolen funds. In her plea she admitted the crime occurred beginning in 2009 while she was city clerk of Auburn, Kan., a town of 1,200 in Shawnee County. She issued duplicate payroll checks to herself and other unauthorized checks which she deposited into her personal accounts. She covered up the embezzlement by creating false entries in the city’s books and bank statements. Grissom commended the FBI investigated and Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard Hathaway is prosecuting.
corruption DALLAS—A detective who worked in the Dallas Police Department’s (DPD) Vice Unit, Jose Luis Bedoy, 40, of Dallas, was convicted yesterday by a federal jury on all four counts of an indictment charging obstruction of official proceedings and obstruction of the due administration of justice, announced U.S. Attorney Sarah R. Saldaña of the Northern District of Texas. Each of the three counts of obstruction of an official proceeding carries a maximum statutory penalty of 20 years in federal prison and a $250,000 fine. The one count of obstruction of due administration of justice carries a maximum statutory penalty of 10 years in federal prison and a $250,000 fine. Bedoy will remain on bond pending sentencing, which is set for February 2015, before U.S. District Judge Barbara M. G. Lynn. Bedoy worked in DPD’s Vice Unit from November 28, 2007 through July 2013. The government presented evidence at trial that in early 2009, after a DPD Vice raid on an adult entertainment establishment, Bedoy met a female prostitute who worked at that establishment. Later, when she tried to reclaim property DPD seized during the raid, Bedoy assisted her. Bedoy later contacted her and expressed an interest in seeing her and wanting a massage from her. A relationship ensued between the two and they began communicating, with Bedoy giving her advice on the adult entertainment establishments at which she could work. Bedoy later met her for a massage, and during the massage, he explained how to screen her clients to avoid being arrested. Bedoy and the female began an intimate relationship. From 2009 until 2013, while they were engaged in a sexual relationship, Bedoy provided law enforcement-sensitive information to her about DPD Vice Unit prostitution raids and other enforcement actions. In January 2013, Bedoy met her at her residence and showed her a DPD investigative case file targeting “Wet,” an adult entertainment establishment, which he had brought with him. Two days later, Wet was raided, and after the raid, Bedoy arranged to meet her at her residence. When the Coppell Police Department began an investigation of “Studio Serene,” an adult entertainment establishment, it enlisted the help of the DPD Vice Unit in its investigation. In March 2013, Bedoy advised the female that Studio Serene was being targeted and advised her against working there. Bedoy told her that the information was only for her benefit, but she relayed the information to Studio Serene’s owner. Based on that information, Studio Serene closed for a number of days. After it reopened on April 25, 2013, however, the Coppell Police Department and the DPD Vice Unit raided Studio Serene. In subsequent interviews they conducted, members of the Coppell Police Department were informed that a DPD Vice Unit detective, named “Jose,” later identified as Bedoy, had “tipped off” the business weeks earlier about the pending raid. On multiple occasions, Bedoy instructed the female on how to avoid being arrested while using Backpage.com for prostitution. He advised her to not only change her phone number every two weeks, but also advised her of the best days and times to work and the best days and times to avoid. On June 25, 2013, Bedoy contacted her to ensure that she wasn’t working Backpage.com during that week because DPD Vice was “working Backpage” that week. In fact, that same day, DPD Vice Unit, including Bedoy, and the FBI conducted a joint operation that was designed to deter prostitution by directing enforcement efforts at Internet-based prostitution. As a result of Bedoy’s conduct, FBI and federal grand jury investigations were initiated. After learning of the investigation, Bedoy obstructed the federal grand jury proceeding by telling the female to move, to never give her real name if she is pulled over by law enforcement, to not let the FBI into her apartment to talk to her, and to change her cell phone so that there would be no link between them. Bedoy also lied to law enforcement about his contacts with the female and whether he provided her with sensitive law enforcement information. The FBI and the DPD’s Public Integrity Unit investigated. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Errin Martin and P.J. Meitl prosecuted.
corruption CHARLESTON, WV—The former Mayor of Williamson, A. Darrin McCormick, was sentenced to three years of probation and a fine of $5,000 for making a materially false statement to the FBI in February 2013. McCormick lied to federal agents in the course of an investigation of suspicious banking activity by Aracoma Contracting, LLC. In addition to being the Mayor of Williamson, McCormick was a bank manager for the Bank of Mingo in Williamson. Aracoma, a contract labor company in Williamson, had a line of credit at the Bank of Mingo. Federal agents were investigating a series of suspicious cash withdrawals by two of the principals of Aracoma, Jerome Edward Russell and Frelin R. Workman. Banks are required by federal law to report all cash transactions involving more than $10,000 to the IRS. Russell, Workman and others, regularly withdrew cash from the Bank of Mingo in amounts less than $10,000 to prevent triggering the reporting requirement and evade the payment of payroll taxes. This practice, known as “structuring” is a federal crime. On February 19, 2013, special agents of the FBI and IRS asked McCormick if he was aware that multiple Aracoma employees had come into the Bank of Mingo at the same time to withdraw cash. McCormick denied knowledge of Aracoma’s structuring practices, though he was well aware of them. After the sentencing, U.S. Attorney Booth Goodwin commented, “Lying to federal investigators is always a serious crime, but when a public official lies in a federal criminal inquiry, it’s especially disappointing. To put it simply, this defendant knew better. He was a high-ranking bank executive and the mayor of Williamson. The bank misconduct that he lied about allowed others to commit crimes including bribery and large-scale fraud. Instead of helping uncover and stop those crimes, he lied to help cover them up.” McCormick pled guilty in May 2014. The FBI and IRS, assisted by the West Virginia State Police and FDIC, handled the investigation and prosecution of McCormick.
corruption BUFFALO, NY—U.S. Attorney William J. Hochul, Jr. announced today that Franklin Lopez, 34, of Buffalo, N.Y., who was convicted of stealing thousands of dollars from the City of Buffalo, a Governmental agency which receives federal funding, was sentenced to 12 months in prison by U.S. District Judge Richard J. Arcara. The defendant was also ordered to pay $69,000 in restitution. Assistant U.S. Attorney Maura K. O’Donnell, who handled the case, stated that the defendant was employed part time as a coin collector in the City of Buffalo Department of Parking Enforcement between 2002 and 2011. In this capacity, Lopez was responsible for collecting coins deposited into parking meters. “This investigation demonstrated that what began as thefts of nickels and dimes, in the end cost taxpayers hundreds of thousands of dollars,” said U.S. Attorney Hochul. “In fact, since these defendants were removed from their positions, the City of Buffalo has seen an increase of over $700,000 in parking meter revenues. Let this case serve as a warning that we will continue to pursue any official who violates a duty to the public.” On August 16, 2011, Buffalo Police found over $1,300 in coins inside the defendant’s work vehicle, money that was supposed to be deposited into the city treasury. Further investigation, including a review of Lopez’s banking records, revealed a substantial amount of cash deposits and cash payments for a variety of items. Between November 2002 and August 2011, Lopez stole approximately $69,000 from city parking meters. Lopez is the fourth employee of the Department of Parking Enforcement to be convicted and sentenced in this case. James Bagarozzo was convicted of stealing over $200,000 from Buffalo parking meters and sentenced to 30 months in prison. Bagarozzo was also ordered to pay $210,000 in restitution. Lawrence Charles has also been convicted of stealing over $10,000 from Buffalo parking meters and was sentenced to six months and prison and ordered to pay $15,000 in restitution. Francis Tronolone was convicted of stealing $9,000 in coins from city parking meters and was sentenced to six months in prison and ordered to pay $9,000 in restitution. The amount of money proven to be stolen by these convicted defendants exceeds $300,000. The sentencing is the culmination of an investigation on the part Special Agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Buffalo Police Department, under the direction of Commissioner Daniel Derenda.
corruption The United States Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania announced today that that United States District Court Judge Malachy E. Mannion has sentenced Robert F. Evans, Jr., age 39, of Moosic, Pennsylvania, to 30 months’ imprisonment. On July 15, 2014, Evans pleaded guilty to a one-count Criminal Information charging that he distributed oxycodone on numerous occasions between August 2012 and July 29, 2013. At the time of the offense, Evans was employed as a police officer with the Hughestown Borough Police Department. According to United States Attorney Peter Smith, at the guilty plea hearing, Evans acknowledged distributing approximately 750 oxycodone pills during the scheme. He also admitted abusing his position of trust as a police officer which significantly facilitated and concealed the offense. In addition to the imprisonment term, Judge Mannion ordered that Evans serve a three-year term of supervised release after completion of his prison sentence. The case was investigated by special agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant U.S. Attorney John Gurganus prosecuted the case.
corruption TERRE HAUTE, IN—Josh J. Minkler, the Acting United States Attorney, today announced federal charges against a former corrections officer at the United States Penitentiary in Terre Haute, IN. Edward Tunwar, 54, was charged with distribution of a controlled substance and two counts of providing contraband in a prison. “We have a right as citizens to put full trust and confidence in our public employees,” said Minkler. “When they betray our trust, they will face the full extent of federal law.” The government alleges that on December 16, 2013, Tunwar, while working as a corrections officer, provided an inmate of the facility with heroin. It is further alleged that between June 1, and December 16, 2014, Tunwar provided an inmate with a cellular telephone and tobacco products. This case was jointly investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the United States Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General. “The FBI will continue to aggressively pursue breaches of the public trust at the local, state and federal levels of government. Public corruption remains a high priority criminal program,” said Special Agent in Charge W. Jay Abbott. “We are pleased to collaborate with our law enforcement partners to pursue such significant misconduct by a government employee” stated John F. Oleskowicz, Special Agent in Charge of the United States Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General, Chicago Field Office. Oleskowicz continued “We hope that these charges will serve as a deterrence to others who might betray the public trust.” Tunwar had his initial appearance in Federal Court today before a magistrate judge. According to Senior Litigation Counsel Bradley Blackington, who is prosecuting the case for the government, Tunwar faces up to 41 years in prison if convicted on all counts. An indictment is only a charge and not evidence of guilt. A defendant is presumed innocent and is entitled to a fair trial at which the government must prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, announced that HARRY P. MICONI, 78, of West Haven, was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge Michael P. Shea in Hartford to six months of imprisonment, followed by two years of supervised release, the first six months of which MICONI must spend in home confinement, for bribing the former executive director of the West Haven Housing Authority. According to court documents and statements made in court, MICONI owned and operated several painting and contracting businesses in West Haven, including P and K Contractor LLC. Between January 2007 and February 2012, MICONI and his business made more than $800,000 in corrupt payments to Michael Siwek, the executive director of the West Haven Housing Authority, and to Four Star Development Company LLC, an entity personally owned and controlled by Siwek. In return, Siwek directed approximately $2.8 million in business for or with the West Haven Housing Authority and its two affiliated instrumentalities, Meadow Landing and Spring Heights, to MICONI and his businesses. Meadow Landing and Spring Heights are two housing complexes that are owned and managed, in part, by the West Haven Housing Authority. As part of his sentence, MICONI was ordered to pay $862,563 in restitution. On November 6, 2013, MICONI pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit bribery in connection with a program receiving federal funds. On September 4, 2014, SIWEK pleaded guilty to bribery and tax evasion charges stemming from his receipt of approximately $1.5 million in bribes from MICONI and others while he was employed by the West Haven Housing Authority. He awaits sentencing. U.S. Attorney Daly stated that the investigation is ongoing. This matter is being investigated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development – Office of Inspector General, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and Internal Revenue Service – Criminal Investigation Division. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Sarah Karwan. ###
corruption BUCKHANNON, WV—Former West Virginia Division of Highways supervisor Barry D. Thompson, 49, of Mr. Clare, West Virginia, admitted that he lied to the State Police, United States Attorney William J. Ihlenfeld, II, announced today. Today in the Magistrate Court of Upshur County, Thompson entered guilty pleas to two counts of providing false information to a West Virginia State Trooper. Thompson, who is presently under federal indictment for lying to a federal agent, has agreed to cooperate with federal authorities in their ongoing investigation into the WV Division of Highways Equipment Division. If Thompson fully cooperates, the U.S. Attorney’s Office will dismiss the pending federal indictment. During the federal investigation into the Division of Highways, Thompson denied any knowledge that state employees had misused state resources to repair vehicles that were no longer owned by the state. However, Thompson admitted today that he instructed at least one state employee, at state expense and on state time, to repair a dump truck that had previously been sold at public auction. Thompson was also present when a state employee was directed to travel in his state issued vehicle, on state time, to purchase a replacement muffler for the aforementioned dump truck. The muffler did not fit and Thompson exchanged it, receiving a refund for the returned muffler. Both mufflers were sold at a discounted rate normally provided to the Division of Highways. The case was investigated by the U.S. Attorney’s Public Corruption Unit. The Federal Bureau of Investigation, State Police, and State Commission on Special Investigations led the inquiry. Assistant U.S. Attorney John C. Parr prosecuted the case on behalf of the government. Upshur County Magistrate Juanita Adams sentenced Thompson to one year of probation. To report public corruption in your community, call the West Virginia Public Corruption Hotline at 855-WVA-FEDS or e-mail wvafeds@usdoj.gov.
corruption CHARLOTTE, NC—Today, Chief U.S. District Judge Frank D. Whitney sentenced former Charlotte Mayor Patrick D. Cannon, 47, to 44 months in prison followed by two years of supervised release for accepting more than $50,000 in bribes while serving in office, announced Anne M. Tompkins, U.S. Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina and John A. Strong, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Charlotte Division. Judge Whitney also ordered Cannon to pay a $10,000 fine and forfeiture in the amount of $50,500. U.S. Attorney Tompkins stated, “Patrick Cannon betrayed the public’s trust and embarrassed the city he was elected to serve. Cannon accepted more than $50,000 in bribes, but the social injury to this community is far deeper. While the perception of rampant public corruption can slowly tear a community apart, justice can bind us together and restore our faith in our government. Today, Cannon was held accountable for using his official position for personal gain. His sentence is also a reminder that my office will prosecute those who put personal interests ahead of the people they were elected to serve.” “Patrick Cannon sold his oath of office, violated the integrity of our government, and betrayed the citizens of Charlotte. Public corruption will not be tolerated; no matter the position or names of those involved. As outlined in the criminal complaint, the FBI is uniquely positioned to dedicate whatever resources necessary to expose even the most deeply entrenched and secretive pay to play schemes,” said John Strong, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI in North Carolina. According to filed court documents and today’s sentencing hearing, from 2009 to March 2014, while serving as City Council Member and/or Mayor Pro Tem, and later as the Mayor of Charlotte, Cannon solicited and accepted bribes such as gifts, cash and other things of value totaling over $50,000, in exchange for a pattern of official actions. Court records show that Cannon accepted the bribes from a Charlotte business owner and two undercover agents posing as investors interested in opening businesses in Charlotte, in exchange for use of his official position on an “as needed” basis. Court records indicate that Cannon promised to use his influence with city and county officials and others to assist his payors’ with business projects and to intervene with any zoning, permitting and transportation issues, among others. In June 2014, Cannon pleaded guilty to one count of honest services wire fraud. In announcing today’s sentence, Judge Whitney commented on the seriousness of the offense, stating that public corruption undermines the legitimacy of government and the public’s faith in its elected leaders and it feeds the cynics who believe that all government is corrupt. Following the sentencing hearing, Cannon was released on bond. The court rejected the defendant’s request for a later reporting date and he will be ordered to self- report to the Federal Bureau of Prisons upon designation of a federal facility. All federal sentences are served without the possibility of parole. The investigation was handled by the Charlotte Division of the FBI. Assistant United States Attorneys Michael E. Savage and Craig D. Randall of the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Charlotte prosecuted the case.
corruption U.S. Attorney Kenneth A. Polite announced that, after a week-long jury trial, VANDALE THOMAS, age 40, a resident of Prairieville, Louisiana, was convicted on all 11 counts of theft, money laundering, and structuring transactions to evade reporting requirements. Seventeen witnesses testified for the United States, establishing that THOMAS knowingly embezzled over $680,000 during his three-year tenure as the Chief Financial Officer at New Orleans Traffic Court (“Traffic Court”). THOMAS was found guilty of three counts of theft concerning programs receiving federal funds resulting from his employment at Traffic Court. Evidence presented at trial established that on November 24, 2008,THOMAS and his accounting firm, Thomas & Thomas Accounting Services, LLC, were hired by Traffic Court to provide accounting and bookkeeping services. THOMAS’s initial agreement with Traffic Court allowed him to bill at a rate of $75.00 an hour and his contract was not to exceed $75,000 for a twelve month period. THOMAS’s billings exceeded $75,000 within the first few months of his agreement. On six additional occasions between November 24, 2008, and April 13, 2011, THOMAS received written authorization from the City of New Orleans and Traffic Court to expand the amount that he could bill. In total, the City and Traffic Court authorized THOMAS to submit invoices and receive compensation for accounting services in an amount not to exceed $627,000. However, subsequent audits by the Louisiana Legislative Auditor’s Office and the Office of the Inspector General for the City of New Orleans, and an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation revealed that THOMAS submitted 174 invoices and was issued 173 checks totaling $1,311,065.53. THOMAS was also found guilty of three counts of laundering illegal funds obtained from Traffic Court. The jury found that on September 14 and September 24, 2010, THOMAS used illegally obtained money from Traffic Court to purchase casino chips in excess of $10,000 at a New Orleans casino and THOMASused illegally obtained money from Traffic Court to make a down payment on an $80,000 Bentley GT Coupe. Additionally, THOMAS was found guilty of five counts of structuring transactions to evade reporting requirements. According to the evidence and testimony presented during the trial, THOMAS used numerous bank branches in order to evade federal currency transaction reporting requirements. Specifically, THOMAS went to multiple bank locations in New Orleans and Baton Rouge to structure cash withdrawals in order to evade the currency transaction reporting requirement that all transactions over $10,000 be reported by financial institutions to the Internal Revenue Service. The maximum penalty THOMAS may receive for Counts 1 through 6 (Theft from Programs Receiving Federal Funds and Money Laundering) is ten years’ imprisonment and a $250,000 fine per count. The maximum penalty for Counts 7 through 11 (Structuring Transactions to Evade Reporting Requirements) is five years’ imprisonment and a $250,000 fine per count. Sentencing in this matter is scheduled for January 14, 2015, before U.S. District Judge Stanwood R. Duval, Jr. U.S. Attorney Polite stated, “Vandale Thomas defrauded the City of New Orleans out of hundreds of thousands of dollars in taxpayer dollars. He then blatantly flaunted his fraudulent conduct on gambling sprees and expensive cars. Today’s guilty verdict ensures that Thomas will be held accountable for his corrupt conduct. Moreover, this case should send a message to those public officials who are engaging in corruption, or are even contemplating doing so. Everyone in this community—the U.S. Attorney’s Office, our law enforcement partners, average residents, your co-workers, even those who you believe are trusted co-conspirators—will eventually work together to turn a spotlight on your criminality.” IRS-CI Special Agent in Charge, Gabriel L. Grchan, stated, “All of the facts set forth in this trial proved that what Vandale Thomas did was nothing more than common thievery. The residents of New Orleans and the surrounding areas are fed up with seeing individuals like Thomas steal public funds to support their personal lifestyles of extravagance. The jury echoed that sentiment today with their verdict. IRS-CI will continue to aggressively pursue individuals who engage in the theft of public funds, and will seek to have them prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.” New Orleans Inspector General Ed Quatrevaux stated, “The conviction today of the former Traffic Court accountant began with an evaluation of Traffic Court by the New Orleans Office of Inspector General, and shows what happens to those who steal from the City today. OIG staff assisted our federal law enforcement partners and prosecutors in building the case against Vandale Thomas. This partnership has resulted in the City of New Orleans being much better protected from those who would prey upon it, and we thank our federal partners for their efforts.” U.S. Attorney Polite praised the work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigations Division, and the New Orleans Office of Inspector General in investigating this matter. Assistant United States Attorneys Brian M. Klebba, Matthew Payne, and Marquest Meeks are in charge of the prosecution.
corruption The former police chief of Kirtland Hills was charged with defrauding the village out of at least $80,000 by making unauthorized purchases of clothing, tools and goods for his own personal use, said Steven M. Dettelbach, U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio, and Stephen D. Anthony, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Cleveland office. A two-count criminal information was filed in federal court charging Gerald Smith, Jr., 57, of Kirtland, with one count of mail fraud and one count of destruction, alteration or falsification of records in a federal investigation. “This defendant stole from the people he swore to serve,” Dettelbach said. “He used the public coffers to furnish his condo and pay for his meals. There will be consequences for public officials who violate the public’s trust.” “To serve others and pursue justice is the oath all law enforcement promise to abide by,” Anthony said. “Unfortunately, this chief’s self-interest and greed overrode his ethical conscious and his commitment to serve his community.” Smith joined the Kirtland Hills police department in 1978 and served as chief from 1988 until April 4, 2014. In this capacity, Smith was authorized to reimburse officers for work-related expenses and use village funds to procure necessary supplies, including the use of several village credit cards or lines of credit, according to the information. The department also had petty cash fund, maintained in Smith’s office, in which employees submitted receipts with their name and the purpose of the expense written on it, for which they were then reimbursed, according to the information. Smith made approximately $80,000 in personal expenditures using village credit cards between 2007 and 2014. Some of the items were used to partially furnish his Florida condominium. Items purchased include ceiling fans, plumbing supplies, vacuum cleaners, children’s lunch boxes and story books, clothing, televisions, book shelves, personal hygiene items, firearms, car repairs and more, according to the information. Smith concealed these purchases by making false entries on receipts to make it appear they were made by others or made for official police business. By spreading the purchases out among different funds, he prevented the village from readily noticing large amounts of expenditures from one particular fund, according to the information. For example, Smith went on a hunting trip to Pennsylvania in 2007. While on vacation, he made the following purchases on a Kirtland Hills credit card: knife sharpening ($70), items at an Army Navy store ($269.96), and items at a sporting goods store, including Pro Hunter pants and jacket and a shirt ($209.97). He then falsely wrote on the receipt that the sporting goods clothing was SWAT clothing for a Kirtland Hills officer, according to the information. In 2007, Smith ordered several items online, including a $107.96 pair of women’s tan Ugg boots with the village Mastercard. Smith falsely wrote on the receipt “Road Dept Boots and Boots for (a Kirtland Hills police officer),” knowing the officer did not receive the boots, according to the information. Smith also obtained Kirtland Hills money by submitting false claims to the petty cash fund. When Kirtland Hills officers went out to lunch, or when Smith took personal trips with officers and the group stopped for food, Smith at times asked for the receipts. He then submitted the receipts for petty cash reimbursement under the officers’ names but without their knowledge, taking the cash for himself, according to the information. On March 17, 2014, Smith was placed on leave by Kirtland Hills and required to surrender his access badges, keys and all village property. He was also served by FBI agents with a federal grand jury subpoena, which required the production of certain documents and items. On March 20, 2014, Smith secretly brought more than 50 items from his residence to a village storage shed and placed the items on the shelves, to give the appearance that these items belonged to the Village of Kirtland Hills. Among the items Smith returned were a drill, heater, dehumidifier, air purifier, camouflage tarps, socket set, channel locks, extension cords, hammer, hand saw and other items, according to the information. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Antoinette T. Bacon following an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. An information is only a charge and is not evidence of guilt. The defendant is entitled to a fair trial in which it will be the government’s burden to prove guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption BALTIMORE, MD—Chief U.S. District Judge Catherine C. Blake sentenced Napoleon McLain, Jr., age 31, of Randallstown, Maryland today to two years in prison followed by three years of supervised release for conspiring to distribute and possess with intent to distribute cocaine base. McLain was an officer with the Baltimore City School Police Force (BCSPF). BCSPF officers are granted police privileges to carry firearms and conduct arrests within the City of Baltimore. The sentence was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein and Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. “It is shocking when a police officer is caught selling illegal drugs,” said U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein. “Fortunately there is no evidence that the defendant distributed drugs to school students.” According to his plea agreement, from no later than December 2012 to August 2013, while he was employed as a BCSPF officer, McLain was a member of a conspiracy to distribute cocaine base. McLain bought multiple ounces of cocaine base at a time from his suppliers, which he sold to others. On four occasions between December 2012 and August 2013, McLain sold a total of approximately 150 grams of cocaine base to a confidential source for $9,800. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI for its work in the investigation and thanked Assistant U.S. Attorney David I. Sharfstein, who prosecuted the case.
corruption JACKSON, MS—Joe Dale Walker, 61, of Monticello, Mississippi, pled guilty today in U.S. District Court to a criminal information charging him with obstruction of justice, announced U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis and FBI Special in Agent in Charge Don Alway. Walker was charged with instructing a federal grand jury witness to destroy documents and then lying to FBI agents. He will be sentenced by Senior U.S. District Judge David C. Bramlette III on January 8, 2015 at 1:30 p.m. in Jackson, Mississippi. He faces a maximum penalty of 20 years in federal prison and a $250,000 fine. From 2010 to the present, the defendant, Joe Dale Walker, was the elected Chancellor for the Thirteenth Chancery Court District of Mississippi, covering Covington, Jefferson Davis, Lawrence, Simpson and Smith Counties. In June 2011, Judge Walker directed the attorney he had appointed for a conservatorship to solicit bids from local contractors for the construction of a home for the ward. Five bids for construction of the home were obtained, including a bid from Judge Walker’s nephew, Chad Teater d/b/a C.T. Construction. Judge Walker reviewed the bids in his chambers and, upon discovering that Teater’s bid was much lower than the other bids, Walker instructed Teater to raise his bid. Teater subsequently submitted another bid which was $23,500 more than his original bid but still lower than the other bids. Due to his nephew’s involvement as a bidder for the Newsome house, Walker transferred the case to another Chancellor for the limited purpose of accepting and approving bids for the construction of the Newsome home. After signing an order awarding the contract to Teater, the case was transferred back to Walker. Prior to August 7, 2013, a grand jury subpoena was served upon a witness to appear before a Federal Grand Jury on September 4, 2013, and to bring any and all documents relating to the Conservatorship. On August 7, 2013, Walker met with the witness and was informed of the Federal Grand Jury subpoena. During this meeting, Walker and the witness discussed the original bid from Teater, the fact that it was lower than the other bids and that Walker had instructed the witness to tell Teater to raise his bid. Walker also asked the witness about original bid and any existing copies. When interviewed by agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation on March 25, 2014, Walker denied ever talking with the witness about two bids submitted by Teater and denied ever telling the witness that Teater’s original bid needed to be “somewhere else” in response to the Federal Grand Jury subpoena. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Mike Hurst.
corruption SANTA ANA, CA—An immigration service officer with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) who took thousands of dollars in bribes from immigrants who were seeking either citizenship or lawful permanent resident status in the United States was sentenced today to 30 months in federal prison. Mai Nhu Nguyen, 48, of Irvine, was sentenced by United States District Judge Josephine L. Staton. From 2011 through June 2013, Nguyen solicited and took bribes from Vietnamese immigrants. In one case, Nguyen took $1,000 from an immigrant seeking a “Green Card” and 200 egg rolls from an immigrant seeking citizenship. Nguyen, who worked at USCIS’s Santa Ana office for approximately eight years and is now on leave, was an immigration service officer with the power to approve or deny applications for immigration benefits that are submitted by immigrants. The case against Nguyen is the product of an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of Inspector General.
corruption LAREDO, TX—Roberto Cantu Rodriguez, a U.S. Border Patrol agent and resident of Laredo has been charged in a two-count indictment related to the harboring and concealment of illegal aliens, announced United States Attorney Kenneth Magidson. Rodriguez, 35, is set to make his initial appearance this morning in Laredo federal court before U.S. Magistrate Judge Guillermo Garcia. The indictment was returned Wednesday, Oct. 1 and he was arrested yesterday at his place of employment. The indictment alleges Rodriguez conspired with others from on or about June 2013 to on or about June 2014 to harbor and conceal undocumented aliens within the Southern District of Texas. He is further charged with misprision of a felony in that he had knowledge of a felony and did allegedly conceal that by conspiring to harbor and conceal undocumented aliens. If convicted, he faces up 10 years for the conspiracy and another possible three-year maximum term for the misprision of a felony. Both charges also carry a possible $250,000 maximum fine, upon conviction. The case was investigated by FBI and Customs and Border Protection-Internal Affairs. Assistant U.S. Attorney Raul Guerra is prosecuting. An indictment is a formal accusation of criminal conduct, not evidence. A defendant is presumed innocent unless convicted through due process of law.
corruption TAMPA, FL—U.S. District Judge James S. Moody, Jr. has sentenced Jerry St. Fleur (26, Tampa) to four years and three months in federal prison for wire fraud and aggravated identity theft. The Court also ordered him to forfeit $61,704, which is traceable to proceeds of the offense. He pleaded guilty on July 9, 2014. According to the plea agreement, beginning no later than January 2011, and continuing until May 2014, St. Fleur, in his capacity as a correctional officer at the Zephyrhills Correctional Facility, unlawfully accessed and stole the personal identifying information (PII) of former and current inmates within the Florida Department of Corrections (FDOC). St. Fleur would “screen scrape” (cut and paste) inmates’ PII, without their knowledge or permission, from FDOC databases and then use that information to file false tax returns. As part of this scheme, St. Fleur filed approximately 182 fraudulent income tax returns. The government estimates that the total amount of fraudulent refunds requested from these returns was more than $500,000. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation, and the Hillsborough County Sheriff’s Office. It was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Matthew Jackson.
corruption WASHINGTON—A former deputy director of the Arkansas Department of Human Services (ADHS), a multi-billion dollar state agency, pleaded guilty today for providing official assistance in exchange for bribes from the owner of two mental health companies. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and First Assistant United States Attorney Patrick C. Harris of the Eastern District of Arkansas made the announcement. Steven B. Jones, 49, of Marion, Arkansas, pleaded guilty to a two-count information charging him with conspiracy and bribery concerning programs receiving federal funds. A sentencing hearing is scheduled for April 2, 2015, before U.S. District Judge Billy Roy Wilson of the Eastern District of Arkansas. According to his plea agreement, Jones served as deputy director of ADHS from approximately April 2007 until July 2013. While serving in that capacity, Jones solicited and accepted multiple cash payments and other things of value from the owner of two businesses that provided inpatient and outpatient mental health services to juveniles. This individual provided the cash payments and other things of value to Jones through the use of two intermediaries, a local pastor and a former county probation officer and city councilman. As part of his plea, Jones admitted that in return for the bribes, he provided official assistance, including providing internal ADHS information about the individual’s businesses. Jones further admitted that he and other members of the conspiracy concealed their dealings by, among other things, holding meetings at restaurants in Memphis, Tennessee, or rural Arkansas, where they would not be easily recognized; funneling the cash payments through the pastor’s church; providing the bribe payments in cash so that the transactions would not be easily traceable; and speaking in code during telephone conversations. The case was investigated by the FBI’s Little Rock Field Office, and is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Edward P. Sullivan of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Patricia S. Harris and Angela S. Jegley of the Eastern District of Arkansas.
corruption WASHINGTON—Four retired and one active-duty Army National Guard officials and one civilian have been charged for their alleged participation in bribery schemes related to the awarding of millions of dollars of Army National Guard marketing, retention and recruitment contracts. Two of the retired Army National Guard officials and the civilian pleaded guilty for their roles in the schemes. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Dana J. Boente of the Eastern District of Virginia, U.S. Attorney Loretta E. Lynch of the Eastern District of New York, Assistant Director in Charge Andrew McCabe of the FBI’s Washington Field Office, Special Agent in Charge Robert E. Craig Jr. of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS) Mid-Atlantic Field Office and Director Frank Robey of the U.S. Army Criminal Investigative Command’s Major Procurement Fraud Unit (Army-CID) made the announcement. “As captured by its motto, the Army National Guard is ‘always ready, always there’ for the American people,” said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. “Unfortunately, today’s charges expose National Guard officials who were ‘always ready’ to pocket bribes and ‘always there’ to take kickbacks. In return, the charged officials allegedly subverted the open bidding process and illegally steered millions of taxpayer dollars to the bribe-payers through marketing and advertising contracts. Corruption should know no place in American government, but least of all in the military that so honorably serves our country. The Criminal Division is committed to rooting out corruption wherever we find it, including in the military, so that we can ensure that no one is putting the public’s trust up for sale.” “These criminal charges and guilty pleas reflect our continued commitment to rooting out public corruption wherever it occurs,” said U.S. Attorney Boente. “The public contracting process should be one of integrity and fairness, and these cases should send a strong message that public corruption will be vigorously prosecuted in the military as well as other areas of government.” “This investigation has sadly reminded us that even some members of our military are willing to trade on the trust their country placed in them to line their pockets with the profits of corrupt activities,” said U.S. Attorney Lynch. “We and our law enforcement partners will constantly guard against and root out such corruption wherever we find it.” Charles Sines, 56, of Stafford, Virginia, a retired colonel from the United States Army National Guard; Wesley Russell, 48, of Albany, Indiana, a retired lieutenant colonel from the Indiana Army National Guard; and Jason Rappoccio, 39, of Hampton, South Carolina, an active-duty sergeant first class from the Army National Guard are charged with conspiracy to solicit bribes and the solicitation of bribes. Russell and Rappoccio allegedly asked for and received bribes, and Sines allegedly provided bribes. Robert Porter, 50 of Columbia, Maryland, a retired colonel from the Army National Guard, and Timothy Bebus, 44, of Forest Lake, Minnesota, a retired sergeant major of the Minnesota Army National Guard and owner of Mil-Team Consulting and Solutions LLC, each pleaded guilty in the Eastern District of Virginia in September 2014 to conspiracy to commit bribery and bribery of a public official. Julianne Hubbell, 45, of Brooklyn Park, Minnesota, a civilian who partnered with her brother, Bebus, as the vice president of operations of Mil-Team, also pleaded guilty in September 2014 to conspiracy to commit bribery. Sentencing hearings for Bebus and Hubbell are scheduled for Jan. 23, 2015, and for Porter on Jan. 30, 2015. “The alleged steering of large government contracts is offensive to active duty, reserve and retired members of the National Guard Bureau who took an oath to support and defend the Constitution,” said FBI Assistant Director in Charge McCabe. “It is also offensive to average American citizens who trust their government and its contractors to use taxpayer money wisely. We urge anyone who has knowledge of corruption and abuse in federal government contracting to contact the FBI.” “The Department of Defense places special trust and confidence in its service members, particularly those in positions to influence the expenditure of taxpayer dollars,” said DCIS Special Agent in Charge Craig. “Guardsmen hold a unique position in our society, representing both their state and military service. The alleged behavior uncovered in this investigation was a disservice to both, but in no way typical of those honorable women and men that serve in our Army and Air National Guard. Identifying and investigating fraud and public corruption remains the highest of priorities for the Defense Criminal Investigative Service. Alongside our law enforcement partners, we will continue to aggressively pursue allegations of fraud impacting Department of Defense resources.” “We have highly-trained, Army CID special agents who are extremely talented and very capable of rooting out this type of corruption within our ranks,” said Army-CID Director Robey. “People must realize, both in and out of uniform, that fraud will not be tolerated within the Army and Department of Defense, and greed cannot and will not trump duty and honor.” As set forth in the indictments and other publicly-filed documents, the National Guard Bureau is a joint activity of the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD), state Army National Guard units and the Departments of the Army and Air Force. The National Guard Bureau, located in Arlington, Virginia, oversees the distribution of federal funding provided to the Army National Guard and its state units. The DOD provides millions of dollars of federal funds to the Army National Guard for, among other things, advertising, marketing and sponsorships in order to recruit new members. The National Guard Bureau uses these funds to promote the Army National Guard by entering into advertising, marketing and sponsorship contracts. For example, through advertising, marketing and sponsorship contracts, the National Guard was an official sponsor of Dew Tour, Warrior Dash, and American Motorcycle Association Supercross’s events, where recruiters handed out promotional items and recruited new members. The National Guard also had a contract to sponsor Michael Jordan’s AMA Superbike team. The National Guard Bureau can avoid a competitive bid process by awarding these federally-funded marketing contracts to Small Business Administration (SBA) certified 8(a) companies, which are minority-owned businesses. The National Guard Bureau also provides a portion of the federal funds to the state units to allocate. The indictments allege that Sines and Rappoccio evaded the competitive bid process by using 8(a) companies to award contracts in exchange for bribes. According to allegations in the indictment against him, Sines founded a company, Financial Solutions, after retiring from the Army National Guard as a colonel. Sines allegedly paid Porter, a then-active-duty colonel in the Army National Guard, a percentage of all contracts that Porter steered to Financial Solutions through 8(a) companies. As the director of the National Guard Bureau’s Guard Strength Directorate, Porter had substantial influence over the awarding of National Guard Bureau contracts, and allegedly steered approximately $4.5 million worth of contracts to Sines and Financial Solutions. The indictment against Russell alleges that, while on active duty as a lieutenant colonel in the Indiana Army National Guard, Russell demanded 15 percent of all profits that a private marketing company would receive from state Army National Guard units. In return for his 15 percent cut of the profits, Russell allegedly promoted and encouraged state Army National Guard units to purchase the marketing company’s products. The indictment against Rappoccio, an active-duty sergeant first class in the Army National Guard, alleges that Bebus and Hubbell paid Rappoccio a $30,000 bribe for steering a contract worth approximately $3.7 million to an 8(a) company chosen by Bebus. In pleading guilty, Bebus and Hubbell admitted to paying this bribe. In an effort to conceal the bribe payment, Bebus, Hubbell and others allegedly arranged for the payment of $6,000 in cash to Rappoccio, and the remaining $24,000 was allegedly routed from a business account controlled by Hubbell to an account controlled by Bebus and Hubbell’s brother-in-law, and then provided to Rappoccio in the form of a cashier’s check to Rappoccio’s wife. An indictment is merely an allegation, and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. The case is being investigated by the FBI’s Washington Field Office, with assistance from DCIS’s Mid-Atlantic Field Office and Army-CID’s Expeditionary Fraud Resident Agency’s Major Procurement Fraud Unit. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Alison L. Anderson of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section, Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Fahey of the Eastern District of Virginia and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Marisa Seifan and Martin Coffey of the Eastern District of New York. Allegations of bribery or corruption within the National Guard Bureau’s retention and recruitment contracting can be reported to the FBI’s Washington Field Office at (202) 278-2000 or the FBI’s Northern Virginia Public Corruption Hotline at (703) 686-6225.
corruption Preet Bharara, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, announced that KRISTIN DAVIS, a former candidate for New York City Comptroller, was sentenced today in Manhattan federal court to two years in prison for illegally distributing hundreds of various types of prescription pills. DAVIS, who was arrested in August 2013, and pled guilty in March 2014 to distributing and possessing with intent to distribute controlled substances, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Edgardo Ramos. Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said: “The convictions of Kristin Davis and the other defendants in this wide-ranging diversion investigation demonstrate once again this Office’s and our law enforcement partners’ resolve to fight the prescription drug abuse epidemic in every affected corner of New York City and beyond.” According to the Complaint, Superseding Information, other information in the public record, and Davis’s guilty plea: On multiple occasions for a period of years through March 2013, DAVIS sold hundreds of prescription pills, containing amphetamine, alprazolam, zolpidem, and carisoprodol, to a person she knew from her own prior purchases and sales to be a drug dealer. Unbeknownst to DAVIS, the person had become a cooperating witness (the “CW”) with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (“FBI”) and was equipped with a recording device. During these sales, DAVIS was recorded saying that the pills she was selling were “Ambien,” “Soma,” and “Xanax.” On a fourth occasion, in April 2013, DAVIS arranged for another individual to sell approximately 180 oxycodone pills to the CW. There is an illegal market for all of the drugs DAVIS sold and assisted another in selling. Oxycodone is a powerful painkiller with a high potential for addiction and abuse, and it is often used as a substitute for, or adjunct to, other illegal drugs, such as heroin. Amphetamine is a psycho-stimulant, often referred to as “speed,” and it is often used as a substitute for, or adjunct to, other illegal drugs, including methamphetamine and cocaine. Alprazolam is a psychoactive drug often used as a substitute for, or adjunct to, other illegal drugs, such as LSD, heroin or opiates. Zolpidem is a sedative/hypnotic drug often used as a substitute for, or adjunct to, other illegal drugs, including amphetamine, methamphetamine, cocaine, and MDMA (commonly known as ecstasy). Carisoprodol is a skeletal muscle relaxant often used in conjunction with painkillers and so-called “date rape” drugs. * * * DAVIS was one of several people charged as part of an investigation conducted by the FBI, the United States Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General (“HHS-OIG”), the New York City Police Department (“NYPD”), and the U.S. Attorney’s Office into the unlawful distribution of prescription drugs containing controlled substances in and around New York City: Thomas Rock was arrested on July 10, 2013, for distributing and conspiring to distribute oxycodone and alprazolam. He pled guilty on February 24, 2014, to distributing oxycodone and alprazolam, and was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Paul A. Engelmayer on July 21, 2014, to 15 months in prison. Eugene Kurochkin was arrested on July 11, 2013, for distributing oxycodone, alprazolam, amphetamine, and zolpidem. He pled guilty on November 1, 2013, to distributing oxycodone, alprazolam, amphetamine, and zolpidem, and was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Robert W. Sweet on February 10, 2014, to one year in prison. Raoul Goldberger and Rebecca Teman were arrested on July 29, 2013, for distributing and conspiring to distribute amphetamine, oxycodone, and vicodin. Goldberger pled guilty on August 21, 2013, to distributing amphetamine and oxycodone, and was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Colleen McMahon on March 12, 2014, to five years in prison. Teman pled guilty on November 12, 2013, to misbranding a prescription drug, and was sentenced by U.S. Magistrate Judge Henry B. Pitman on March 11, 2014, to 18 months’ probation with a special condition of 100 hours of community service. Erik Pichardo, who was referred to as “Individual-1” in the Complaint against DAVIS, was arrested in August 2013 for distributing oxycodone. He pled guilty on December 12, 2013, to conspiracy to distribute oxycodone, and is scheduled to be sentenced by Chief U.S. District Judge Loretta A. Preska on October 23, 2014. David J. Wright was arrested on October 3, 2013, for distributing oxycodone, amphetamine, and carisoprodol. He pled guilty on July 14, 2014, to distributing oxycodone, amphetamine, and carisoprodol, and is scheduled to be sentenced by Chief U.S. District Judge Loretta A. Preska on November 18, 2014. * * * In addition to her prison term, DAVIS, 39, of New York City, was sentenced to two years of supervised release. DAVIS was also ordered to pay $1,765 in forfeiture and a $100 special assessment fee. Mr. Bharara praised the investigative work of the FBI. He also thanked HHS-OIG and the NYPD for their assistance in the investigation. These cases are being handled by the Office’s Narcotics Unit. Assistant United States Attorneys Daniel C. Richenthal, Kristy J. Greenberg, and Edward A. Imperatore are in charge of the prosecutions. Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption TRENTON, NJ—An Essex County corrections officer today admitted his involvement in a scheme to smuggle marijuana, cell phones and tobacco into the Essex County Jail, a federal pretrial detention facility, in exchange for cash bribe payments, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Stephon Solomon, 26, of Irvington, New Jersey, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Mary L. Cooper in Trenton federal court to an information charging him with one count of conspiring to commit extortion under color of official right. According to the documents filed in this and other cases and statements made in court: On multiple occasions between October 2013 and May 2014, Solomon, a corrections officer at the Essex County Jail, smuggled contraband—including cell phones, tobacco, and marijuana—to Quasim Nichols, 29, a federal pretrial detainee at the Essex County Jail, in exchange for cash bribes. Darsell Davis, 29, and Dwayne Harper, 30, friends of Nichols, aided in the smuggling scheme by collecting the contraband to be smuggled into the jail. Solomon received the contraband and cash bribes from Davis and then smuggled the contraband to Nichols, who ultimately sold some of the marijuana and cell phones to other inmates. The inmates purchasing marijuana and cell phones from Nichols had their friends and family pay for the items by sending Western Union money transfers to Nichols, who enlisted Davis and others to retrieve those payments for him. Charges against Nichols, Davis and Harper are still pending. The charge for conspiring to commit extortion under color of official right to which Solomon pleaded guilty carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a maximum fine of $250,000. Under terms of the plea agreement, Solomon will forfeit $4,000, representing his proceeds from the conspiracy. Sentencing is scheduled for Jan. 21, 2015. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford in Newark, and investigators with the Internal Affairs Division of Essex County Jail, under the leadership of Warden Roy Hendricks, with the investigation leading to today’s guilty plea. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Rahul Agarwal of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division and Rob Frazer of the Criminal Division, Organized Crime/Gangs Unit, in Newark.
corruption NEW YORK—Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, Comptroller Thomas P. DiNapoli and United States Attorney for the Northern District Richard S. Hartunian today announced the arrest and indictment of New York State Assemblyman William Scarborough for allegedly stealing campaign funds and falsely collecting travel reimbursements. The 23-count state indictment accuses the Southeast Queens Assemblyman of withdrawing and diverting over $40,000 from the bank account of the “Friends of Bill Scarborough” campaign committee and then using those funds for personal expenses. The 11-count federal indictment charges Scarborough with improperly claiming “per diem” expenses for travel that didn’t take place. If convicted on all charges, he faces up to 37 years in prison. “The crimes Mr. Scarborough is accused of committing represent a shameful breach of the trust his constituents placed in him,” said Attorney General Schneiderman. “New Yorkers are repeatedly asked to have faith in our leaders, and it appears that faith has been shattered once again. Every time my office arrests a corrupt public official, it sends the message that there must be one set of rules for everyone and no one is above the law, no matter how powerful or well-connected. I also want to thank Comptroller DiNapoli and U.S. Attorney Hartunian—cases like that are made possible only through the great collaboration of our law-enforcement partners.” “Elected officials cannot use taxpayer money or campaign funds as their personal piggy banks. Assemblyman Scarborough tried to game the system, thinking he could get away with it,” New York State Comptroller Thomas P. DiNapoli said. “Through our joint investigation, we revealed that Assemblyman Scarborough allegedly submitted fraudulent travel vouchers and filed false reports on his use of campaign funds. I will continue to partner with Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, U.S. Attorney Richard Hartunian, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and prosecutors across the state to root out corruption and bring corrupt officials to justice.” U.S. Attorney Richard S. Hartunian said: “Today’s indictments demonstrate the commitment of state and federal authorities to combat the fraud and corruption that has plagued our political system. Our elected officials are expected to safeguard the integrity of their office and follow all the rules. When they fail to do so, law enforcement will respond. I heartily commend Attorney General Schneiderman and Comptroller DiNapoli for their vigorous pursuit of this case. The collaboration between state and federal investigators that has brought about these indictments has proven to be an effective tool in identifying and rooting out corruption in our state government.” State Indictment According to documents made public today in connection with the state investigation, part of an ongoing effort between Schneiderman and DiNapoli known as “Operation Integrity” and conducted with the assistance of the FBI, Scarborough engaged in a pattern of illegal activity over the last seven years. Bank records obtained as part of the investigation show that between January 2007 and March 2014, Scarborough made numerous withdrawals and transfers from his campaign committee’s account totaling approximately $38,000. Some of that money was taken out directly as cash withdrawals; some was transferred into his personal account, according to the indictment and court papers. Additionally, Scarborough deposited five checks made payable to “Friends of Bill Scarborough,” totaling $3,450, directly into his personal bank account. The state indictment, filed in New York State Supreme Court in Albany, accuses Mr. Scarborough of then spending that cash for his own personal use, in violation of New York State Election Law, which says that “[c]ontributions received by a candidate or a political committee … shall not be converted by any person to a personal use.” Mr. Scarborough also allegedly attempted to conceal his illegal conduct by not reporting the withdrawals to the state Board of Elections, as legally required. Between 2007 and 2014, there were 21 separate filings made with the Board of Elections that did not account for the withdrawals. Additionally, the money has never been accounted for in the campaign committee’s financial records. The indictment charges Scarborough with two felony counts of Grand Larceny and 21 felony counts of Offering a False Instrument for Filing. Federal Indictment The federal investigation, conducted by the United States Attorney’s Office and the Albany Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, focused on the alleged improper claiming of “per diem” payments and other travel-related expenses from 2009 to 2012. In a federal indictment, filed today in United States District Court in Albany, Assemblyman Scarborough has been charged with four (4) counts of Theft Concerning a Program Receiving Federal Funds for allegedly submitting 174 false reimbursement vouchers for per diem expenses, mileage and tolls in excess of $40,000 between January 2009 and December 2012. If convicted, Scarborough faces a maximum term of imprisonment of not more than 10 years and a $250,000 fine. Scarborough was also charged with seven (7) counts of Wire Fraud relating to communications directing payment of specific false New York State Travel Vouchers to his bank account. If convicted, these counts carry a maximum term of imprisonment of not more than 20 years and fine up to $250,000. The Attorney General, Comptroller and U.S. Attorney thank the Albany office of the FBI and Deputy Comptroller Nelson Sheingold and Investigator Rebecca Shanley of the State Comptroller’s Office for their cooperation and assistance in this investigation. Prosecuting the state case is Senior Counsel Darren Miller of the Attorney General’s Public Integrity Bureau, which is led by Deputy Bureau Chief Stacy Aronowitz and Bureau Chief Daniel Cort. Kelly Donovan is the Executive Deputy Attorney General for Criminal Justice. The state’s investigation was handled by Investigator Mark Spencer and Deputy Bureau Chief Antoine Karam of the Investigation Bureau, which is led by Chief Dominick Zarrella. Forensic auditor Jason Blair and legal analyst Sara Pogorzelski provided additional assistance. The federal investigation was handled by the FBI, Albany Division. The federal case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeffrey Coffman. All charges are merely accusations and all defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty in a court of law.
corruption TRENTON, NJ—Two Mercer County, New Jersey, men were sentenced today for conspiring with the former Mayor of Trenton and others to extort bribes and kickbacks in connection with a Trenton parking garage project, and for unrelated drug charges, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Joseph Giorgianni, a/k/a “Jo Jo,” 65, of Ewing Township, New Jersey, and Charles Hall III, 51, of Trenton, were sentenced to 78 and 48 months in prison, respectively. U.S. District Judge Michael A. Shipp imposed the sentences today in Newark federal court. Giorgianni previously pleaded guilty before Judge Shipp to an indictment charging him with one count of conspiring with former Trenton Mayor Tony F. Mack, 48, Ralphiel Mack, 41, (Tony Mack’s brother) both of Trenton, Hall and others to obstruct interstate commerce by extorting individuals under color of official right in connection with the development of an automated parking garage. Giorgianni also pleaded guilty to one count of extorting individuals under color of official right in connection with the administration of a power washing contract, as well as charges contained in a separate indictment, including one count of conspiracy to distribute and possess with intent to distribute oxycodone and one count of possessing a firearm as a felon. Hall previously pleaded guilty before Judge Shipp to an information charging him with one count of conspiring to obstruct interstate commerce by extorting individuals under color of official right. Hall also pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to distribute and possess with intent to distribute oxycodone. According to documents filed in this case and statements made in court: Tony Mack, Ralphiel Mack, Hall, and Giorgianni conspired to accept approximately $119,000 in cash and other valuables – actually accepting $54,000 and planning to accept the rest – from two cooperating witnesses. In exchange for the payments, Tony Mack assisted them in their efforts to acquire a city-owned lot on East State Street to develop an automated parking garage. The scheme included a plan for the city of Trenton to sell the lot for far less than one of the cooperating witnesses was willing to pay – diverting $100,000 of the suggested purchase amount as a bribe and kickback payment to Giorgianni and Tony Mack. The mayor authorized and directed a Trenton official responsible for disposition of city-owned land to offer the East State Street lot to one of the witnesses for $100,000, significantly less than the amount originally proposed, so the rest could be taken as a bribe. The defendants went to great lengths to conceal their corrupt activity and keep Tony Mack “safe” from law enforcement. For example, Giorgianni and Ralphiel Mack acted as intermediaries, or “buffers,” who accepted cash payments for Tony Mack’s benefit. To conceal the corrupt arrangement, the defendants avoided discussing matters related to the scheme over the telephone. When those matters were discussed, they used code words and aliases, including “Uncle Remus,” which both Giorgianni and Hall regularly used to communicate to Tony Mack that a corrupt payment had been received. The defendants also concealed their activities by holding meetings concerning the corrupt activity away from Trenton City Hall, including a restaurant maintained by Giorgianni known as JoJo’s Steakhouse. In addition to the parking garage bribe and extortion payments, Giorgianni and Hall admitted their involvement in a narcotics distribution conspiracy with Mary Manfredo, 67, of Lawrenceville, New Jersey, and others from May 2011 to July 2012. Hall said he obtained, in coordination with Giorgianni, 13 prescriptions for oxycodone-based pain medication from a doctor in Nutley, New Jersey, which included a total of 1,560 pills. JoJo’s Steakhouse served as a front where oxycodone pills and drug proceeds were received and distributed. Also, on July 18, 2012, Giorgianni, a convicted felon, was found in possession of four guns, including three pistols and a pump-action shotgun. Tony F. Mack and Raphiel Mack, both convicted following a five-week trial in February 2014, were sentenced to serve 58 months in prison and 30 months in prison, respectively. In addition to the prison terms, Judge Shipp sentenced Giorgianni and Hall each to serve three years of supervised release. Manfredo pleaded guilty to conspiring with Giorgianni, Hall and others to distribute and possess with intent to distribute oxycodone. Manfredo awaits sentencing. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI’s Trenton Resident Agency, Newark Field Office, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford, for the investigation. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Eric W. Moran and Matthew J. Skahill of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division in Trenton and Camden, respectively. Defense counsel: Jerome A. Ballarotto Esq., Trenton
corruption WASHINGTON—Two campaign workers pleaded guilty this week in the Southern District of Texas for paying voters to vote in two 2012 elections in Hidalgo County, Texas, announced Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson of the Southern District of Texas. Veronica Saldivar, 42, of Donna, Texas, pleaded guilty today to one count of vote-buying before U.S. District Judge Randy Crane of the Southern District of Texas and is scheduled for sentencing on Dec. 8, 2014. Belinda Solis, 39, also of Donna, pleaded guilty on Sept. 25, 2014, to one count of vote-buying before U.S. District Judge Micaela Alvarez of the Southern District of Texas and is scheduled for sentencing on Dec. 11, 2014. According to Saldivar’s plea agreement, a primary election was held on May 29, 2012, in Donna for the presidential election, and various state, county, and local offices, including the office of a county commissioner for Hidalgo County. Saldivar assisted in the campaign to elect a candidate to the office of county commissioner. In the course of that work, she paid voters with cash and cocaine for voting in this primary election and for voting for a specific candidate for a county commissioner position. According to Solis’s plea agreement, a general election was held on Nov. 6, 2012, in Donna, for the presidential election and various state, county, and local offices, including the Donna School Board. Solis assisted in the campaign to elect a slate of four candidates to the Donna School Board. In the course of that work, she paid voters cash for voting in the election and for voting for specific Donna School Board candidates. This case was investigated by the FBI and is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Monique Abrishami and Jennifer Blackwell of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Leo J. Leo of the Southern District of Texas.
corruption ST. LOUIS, MO—The mayor of Pine Lawn, Missouri, Sylvester Caldwell, has been arrested as a result of an indictment charging him with extortion of cash payments from the owner of a local towing company. Caldwell, 54, Pine Lawn, was indicted by a federal grand jury on one felony count of interference with commerce by extortion. He was arrested by FBI agents Thursday. He appeared in court late yesterday afternoon and was released on bond. Caldwell is scheduled for arraignment Monday, September 29th at 9:30. According to the indictment, Mayor Caldwell exercised authority over which towing companies provided the towing services for the City of Pine Lawn. The indictment alleges that between December 2013 and April 2014, Caldwell extorted cash payments from the owner of one local towing company, referred to in the indictment as “John Doe,” in exchange for directing the Pine Lawn Police Department to use Doe’s towing company. If convicted, this charge carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and/or fines up to $250,000. In determining the actual sentence, a judge is required to consider the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines, which provide recommended sentencing ranges. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Reginald Harris is handling the case for the U.S. Attorney’s Office. As is always the case, charges set forth in an indictment are merely accusations and do not constitute proof of guilt. Every defendant is presumed to be innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption PITTSBURGH—A resident of Cheswick, Pa., pleaded guilty in federal court to a charge of conspiracy to commit an offense against the United States, the United States Attorney’s Office announced today. Richard Allan Toney, 58, of Ridge Road, Cheswick, Pennsylvania, 15204, pleaded guilty to one count before United States Senior District Judge Donetta Ambrose. At the conclusion of the proceeding Judge Ambrose sentenced Mr. Toney to three years of probation. In connection with the guilty plea, the court was advised that from in and around April 2009, and continuing thereafter to in and around September 2012, Richard Allan Toney conspired with others to hinder the prosecution or punishment of others relating to conduct surrounding a 2009 primary election for public office. Also, the court was advised that during the charged conspiracy, on or about Sept. 19, 2012, and Sept. 21, 2012, in the Western District of Pennsylvania, Richard Allan Toney attempted to influence and prevent the truthful testimony of a witness before a federal grand jury. According to the government, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and a federal grand jury had been investigating the 2009 election campaign for the position of Supervisor of Harmar Township, Pennsylvania. During the FBI’s investigation, individuals were interviewed and subpoenaed to testify before the grand jury in September of 2012. Toney, who at the time was employed as a Police Captain with the Harmar Township Police Department, twice attempted to prevent the truthful testimony of a grand jury witness. The law provided for a maximum total sentence of not more than five years in prison, a fine of $250,000.00 or both. Assistant United States Attorney Jonathan B. Ortiz prosecuted this case on behalf of the government. The Federal Bureau of Investigation conducted the investigation leading to the information in this case.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—Joseph C. Waters, Jr., 61, of Philadelphia, pleaded guilty today to using his judicial position to influence the outcome of two cases in the Philadelphia Municipal Court, announced United States Attorney Zane David Memeger. Waters, a former Philadelphia Municipal Court Judge, pleaded guilty to an information charging mail fraud and honest services wire fraud. According to documents filed in the case, on September 30, 2011, Waters was asked by Person #1 – a politically active business owner – to use his judicial office to achieve a favorable outcome in a small claims case filed in Philadelphia Municipal Court against Person #1’s real estate management company. To that end, Waters called two other Municipal Court judges, assigned to the case on different dates, and asked them to rule in Person #1’s favor. A Municipal Court Judge identified in the information as Judge #2 ultimately adjudicated the case in favor of Person #1 after Waters told Judge #2 “he’s a friend of mine.” The information charges that Judge #2’s ruling in favor of Person #1’s company prevented the plaintiff in the small claims case, Company B, from collecting $2733 in unpaid fees owed to it for security services it delivered to Person #1’s company. Waters admitted today that he gave Person #1 a secret advantage through a series of secret ex parte communications with other Municipal Court judges scheduled to hear the small claims case and used his position to cause favorable rulings for Person #1. The information outlined a second scheme in which Waters used his position as a judge to facilitate a favorable outcome in a criminal firearms case. According to the information, Person #1 urged a witness cooperating with the government, “CW#1,” to contribute money to help pay down debts Waters had incurred while campaigning for a position on the Municipal Court. In January 2010, CW#1, gave Waters $1,000 in cash. The information charged that, in accepting the money, Waters told CW#1 that he would help CW#1 with future problems that CW#1 or CW#1’s friends may encounter in the court system. The information further alleged that between 2010 and 2012, CW#1 provided gifts and cash contributions to Waters that were not reported on Waters’ campaign finance reporting forms. In May 2012, CW#1 asked Waters for his assistance with a firearms prosecution pending in the Municipal Court. CW#1 introduced Waters to an undercover agent (“UC#1”) as a business associate. CW#1 and UC#1 asked Waters to help UC #1’s “cousin” who had been arrested for felony possession of a firearm. On July 23, 2012, Waters called Judge #1 alerting Judge #1 to the preliminary hearing of a “friend” for the firearms charge and asked Judge #1 to “help him.” According to the information, at a July 24, 2012 preliminary hearing, Judge #1, without proper legal basis, reduced the felony firearms charge to a misdemeanor. U.S. District Court Judge Juan R. Sanchez scheduled a sentencing hearing for January 22, 2015. Waters faces a maximum statutory sentence of 40 years in prison, a fine of up to $500,000 and up to three years of supervised release. The case was investigated by the FBI and is being prosecuted by Chief of the Public Corruption Unit Richard P. Barrett and Assistant United States Attorney Michelle L. Morgan. An Indictment, Information or Criminal Complaint is an accusation. A defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, and George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office, announce the filing of a one-count information charging William E. Pino, 60, of Miami, with offering and agreeing to give something of value to a public official with the intent to influence or reward said public official in connection with a transaction or series of transactions and thereby committing bribery in programs receiving federal funds, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 666. Pino will make his initial appearance on September 30, 2014 at 11:00 a.m. before U.S. Magistrate Judge Patrick M. Hunt in Fort Lauderdale. According to the information, Pino was involved in a number of companies in South Florida that were in the business of installing, repairing and maintaining street lights, traffic signals, and traffic systems and the sale of products needed to make such installations and repairs, such as light poles. From in or about April 2012 through on or about June 27, 2012, Pino met with a confidential informant who advised Pino that there were upcoming public works projects in Broward County for traffic systems, traffic signs, street lights and light poles. The informant advised Pino that the informant had a contact in Broward County, but that Pino would need to “take care of” the public official. Pino agreed to “take care of” the public official. On or about May 24, 2012, Pino was told that the public official had a purchase order for $100,000 in light poles for Pino’s company. Pino agreed to pay the public official $5,000 in exchange for the purchase order containing $100,000 of his light poles. On or about June 27, 2012, there was a meeting between Pino, the informant, and the public official in Plantation. Pino was handed a purchase order for his company to provide Broward County with $100,000 worth of light poles and Pino then handed the public official an envelope containing $5,000 in U.S. currency. If convicted, Pino faces a statutory maximum term of 10 years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeffrey N. Kaplan. An information is only an accusation and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Southern District of Florida at www.flsd.uscourts.gov or on http://pacer.flsd.uscourts.gov.
corruption BATON ROUGE, LA—United States Attorney Walt Green announced today the sentencing of the former Director of the Bureau of Auditing and Compliance Services for the Louisiana Department of Children and Family Services (DCFS). U.S. District Judge Shelley Dick sentenced DELRICE J. AUGUSTUS, age 35, of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, to 37 months’ imprisonment, two years of supervised release following imprisonment, restitution of $155,305.24 to DCFS, and forfeiture of $150,035 to the United States. Augustus was sentenced following his conviction for stealing from a federally-funded entity, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 666(a)(1)(A). Augustus served as the Director of the Bureau of Auditing and Compliance Services for DCFS, a state agency which receives over a billion dollars ($1,000,000,000) in federal funding annually. As Director, Augustus reported directly to the Secretary of DCFS and led the office responsible for safeguarding assets against theft and unauthorized use; ensuring that transactions were properly authorized and recorded properly; and ensuring compliance with management policies, as well as federal and state laws and regulations. When he pled guilty, Augustus admitted to using his official position to defraud DCFS through the following means. Augustus admitted to fraudulently misusing government purchasing cards to obtain items for personal use for himself and others, including an installed dishwasher, televisions, movies, cameras, wireless audio systems, such as Sonos and Jawbone, gaming devices, such as Xboxes, Wii and Leapsters, mobile devices, such as I-Pads, Kindle Fires, and an I-Phone 5, Dyson vacuums, rental vehicles, hotel rooms, and fuel. Augustus admitted to misusing and causing others to misuse state travel and gas cards to pay for personal travel and entertainment expenses for himself and others, including gas, rental vehicles, and hotel stays. One such occasion involved purchasing hotel suites in New Orleans for Mardi Gras and the NBA All-Star Game. Augustus admitted to engaging in a scheme to create and use fraudulent documents to request and receive reimbursement from the State of Louisiana for official travel that did not occur. Augustus would sign and submit reimbursement claims for expenses he falsely claimed to have incurred as part of his official duties. Augustus would cause the signature of the Secretary of the Louisiana Department of Children and Family Services to appear on his fraudulent reimbursement claims as approving such claims, when, in fact, the Secretary had neither approved the claims nor authorized her signature to be used in such a manner. Augustus would also create fraudulent documents reflecting that C.P. and K.G., who were employees in the Auditor’s Office, had incurred certain expenses related to official travel. C.P. and K.G. would sign the fraudulent reimbursement requests as the requesting employees, and Augustus would sign as the approving supervisor. The State would pay the requested amount to C.P. and K.G. who would split the proceeds with Augustus. U.S. Attorney Green stated: “It is a sad day when someone whose responsibility it is to safeguard and watch over hundreds of millions of dollars of federal funds is caught stealing from the very funds he is entrusted to protect. I commend DCFS leadership on their immediate action when the fraud became known to them. Such swift action and cooperation with law enforcement is imperative to ensuring that the occasional bad actor is addressed. I am grateful to our partners with the Louisiana State Police, the Louisiana Inspector General’s Office, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation who worked seamlessly with our prosecutors to ensure today’s just result.” Louisiana Inspector General Stephen Street commented: “This sentence should make it clear to anyone thinking about stealing from the taxpayers that they had better be prepared to go to jail for it. Together with our law enforcement partners, we will continue doing everything we can to make that happen.” “The public demands that we as law enforcement professionals hold those that commit such crimes responsible,” stated Colonel Mike Edmonson, Superintendent of the Louisiana State Police. “The Louisiana State Police and all of our law enforcement partners are committed to ensuring that individuals in positions of trust are held to a higher standard.” This matter is being handled by the United States Attorney’s Office, the Louisiana State Police, the Louisiana Inspector General’s Office, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The matter is being prosecuted by First Assistant United States Attorney Corey R. Amundson, who serves as the Chief of the Criminal Division, and Special Assistant United States Attorney J. Brad Casey.
corruption SHREVEPORT, LA—A grand jury indicted former Bossier Parish Sheriff Larry Deen and two owners of Blakey Auto Plex, LLC, U.S. Attorney Stephanie A. Finley announced today. Former Bossier Parish Sheriff Larry C. Deen, 66, of Benton, La., Clinton E. Blakey, 40, of Shreveport, La., and Clifton D. Blakey, 35, of Benton, La., were indicted on one count of conspiracy to commit federal program theft, one count of federal program theft, and one count of failure to file IRS Tax Form 8300. According to the indictment, starting in January 2012, Deen is accused of conspiring with Clinton Blakey and Clifton Blakey, co-owners of Blakey Auto Plex, LLC (BAP), to retain control and gain ownership of a white four-door 2009 Chevrolet Suburban LTZ that was owned by the Bossier Parish Sheriff’s Office. They are also accused of attempting to unlawfully enrich themselves through the conspiracy, and did this in part by undervaluing the vehicle at $21,375 when it was traded in to BAP by the Bossier Parish Sheriff’s Office in May of 2012. The indictment also charges Clinton Blakey and Clifton Blakey with failing to file a Form 8300 in connection with $21,000 paid to BAP in July 2012. A Form 8300 is required to be filed when anyone engages in a trade or business who, in the course of such trade or business, receives more than $10,000 in a transaction or in two or more related transactions. The defendants face five years in prison and one year of supervised release for the conspiracy count and 10 years in prison and three years of supervised release for the theft count. Clinton Blakey and Clifton Blakey face five years in prison and one year of supervised release for the Form 8300 count. They also face a $250,000 fine for each count and forfeiture of the proceeds traceable to and property involved in the offenses. The FBI and Louisiana State Police conducted the investigation. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Cytheria D. Jernigan and Joseph G. Jarzabek are prosecuting the case. An indictment is merely an accusation and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption URBANA, IL—A former acting Pembroke Township Supervisor, Leon Eddie Mondy, pled guilty today to defrauding township accounts of more than $60,000 from August 2012 to May 2013. Mondy entered his open plea of guilty to one count of wire fraud in an appearance this afternoon before U.S. Magistrate Judge David G. Bernthal. Sentencing has been scheduled for Jan. 23, 2015, in Peoria, before Chief U.S. District Judge James E. Shadid. Mondy, 35, of St. Anne, Ill., admitted that during the time he was serving as the acting Pembroke Township Supervisor, he withdrew more than $60,000 in cash from various township accounts and spent the money on gambling. Overall, according to court documents, Mondy lost $67,418 from gambling during the same time that he made $66,434 in unauthorized cash withdrawals from Pembroke township accounts. As township supervisor, Mondy was a signatory and had access to the township’s various bank accounts. Mondy admitted he repeatedly transferred funds between township accounts and withdrew cash from the various accounts under the false pretense that the funds would be used for the benefit of the township. The accounts included Insurance, the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund, Water, Community Center, Employee Deductions, Senior Nutrition, and Social Security. The cash withdrawals varied from as little as $300 to as much as $3,542. The charge is the result of an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Illinois Attorney General’s Office. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Eugene L. Miller. The offense of wire fraud carries a maximum statutory penalty of 20 years in prison and fines of up to $250,000.
corruption LOS ANGELES—Six sworn deputies who were working in the Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department each were sentenced today to federal prison terms for interfering with a federal civil rights investigation into misconduct at the Men’s Central Jail. The six defendants received prison terms of up to 41 months from a federal judge who said they all lacked “courage to do what is right” and then failed to show “even the slightest remorse.” United States District Judge Percy Anderson issued the sentences after a federal jury determined that the defendants, including two lieutenants, attempted to influence witnesses, threatened an FBI agent with arrest and concealed an FBI informant who should have been turned over to federal authorities. All six of the defendants were convicted of participating in a broad conspiracy to obstruct justice, a plot that began in the summer of 2011 after they learned that a jail inmate was an FBI informant and was acting as a cooperator in a federal investigation into corruption and civil rights violations at the jail. “Blind obedience to a corrupt culture has serious consequences,” Judge Anderson told the defendants before ordering each of them to begin prison sentences in the coming months. Acting United States Attorney Stephanie Yonekura stated: “In their corrupt attempt to shield the Sheriff’s Department from scrutiny, these deputies brought scandal and shame to themselves and their department. These deputies decided to impede a federal investigation, and in doing so they threw away their careers and their freedom. These law enforcement officers have now been held accountable for their unlawful actions.” The defendants who were sentenced today are: Gregory Thompson, 54, a now-retired lieutenant who oversaw LASD’s Operation Safe Jails Program, who was ordered to serve 37 months in prison and to pay a $7,500 fine; Lieutenant Stephen Leavins, 52, who was assigned to the LASD’s Internal Criminal Investigations Bureau, who received a 41-month prison sentence; Gerard Smith, 42, a deputy who was assigned to the Operation Safe Jails Program, who was ordered to serve 21 months in prison; Mickey Manzo, 34, a deputy who was assigned to the Operation Safe Jails Program, who received a 24-month sentence; Scott Craig, 50, a sergeant who was assigned to the Internal Criminal Investigations Bureau, who was sentenced to 33 months; and Maricela Long, 46, a sergeant who assigned to the Internal Criminal Investigations Bureau, who received a sentence of two years in federal prison. Following the completion of their prison sentences, each defendant will serve one year on supervised release. “Interference with a federal investigation cannot be tolerated,” said Bill Lewis, the Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Los Angeles Field Office. “The sentences imposed today allow us to move forward toward an environment of mutual trust and the common goal of delivering justice to victims of crime. I look forward to continued collaboration with our trusted partners at the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department.” All six were found guilty on July 1 after a jury heard evidence about how the defendants learned that an inmate received a cellular phone from a deputy sheriff who took a bribe and that the inmate was part of a federal civil rights and corruption investigation. The deputies took affirmative steps to hide the cooperator from the FBI and the United States Marshals Service, which were attempting to bring the inmate into federal custody pursuant to an order issued by a federal judge. As part of the conspiracy, records were altered to make it appear as if the cooperator had been released, but he was re-booked under different names. The deputies also engaged in witness tampering by attempting to influence witnesses to not cooperate with the federal grand jury investigation, including the informant and the sheriff’s deputy who had taken a bribe to smuggle the cell phone into the jail. Over the course of several weeks, the defendants sought an order from a Los Angeles Superior Court judge that would have compelled the FBI to turn over information about its investigation to LASD. After the judge refused to issue such an order, based on a lack of jurisdiction, Craig and Long confronted an FBI special agent at her residence in an attempt to intimidate her into providing details about the investigation and to try to deter the FBI from conducting the federal investigation. The sergeants falsely told the special agent, and later her supervisor, that they were obtaining a warrant for her arrest. Speaking of the confrontation at the special agent’s home, Judge Anderson said it was one of the most striking incidents related to the obstruction conspiracy, particularly because it was videotaped. “They did this to scare and intimidate the FBI…and they intended to obstruct justice,” the judge said. In addition to the conspiracy count, all six deputies were convicted of obstruction of justice offenses. Craig and Long were also found guilty of making false statements to the FBI agent and to her supervisor about seeking a warrant for her arrest. Thompson, Craig and Leavins are no longer with the Sheriff’s Department. Smith is on approved leave. Manzo and Long, according to the Sheriff’s Department, were relieved of duty without pay in December 2013.
corruption NEWARK, NJ—A New Jersey Transit employee admitted today to obtaining money from New Jersey Transit vendors to use his official authority and influence to help them get work with New Jersey Transit, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. William Talerico, 55, of Beachwood, New Jersey, pleaded guilty to an information charging one count of affecting commerce by extortion under color of official right. Talerico entered his guilty plea before U.S. District Judge William H. Walls in Newark federal court. According to documents in this case and statements made in court: From at least around January 2006 to April 2012, Talerico served as a supervisor of stations responsible for overseeing the maintenance and custodial functions for certain New Jersey Transit facilities, including stations on New Jersey Transit’s North Jersey Coast Line and Northeast Corridor. During this time period, Talerico agreed to accept and accepted corrupt payments in cash from numerous New Jersey Transit vendors. In exchange, Talerico agreed to, and did, exercise official authority and influence to assist the New Jersey Transit vendors with securing work from New Jersey Transit. In addition, Talerico acted as an intermediary through which corrupt payments were given to a New Jersey Transit supervisor. Talerico received more than $70,000, for himself and the supervisor, in corrupt payments of cash and other items of value from these New Jersey Transit vendors. The extortion charge to which Talerico pleaded guilty carries a maximum potential penalty of 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Talerico is scheduled to be sentenced on Jan. 6, 2015. U.S. Attorney Fishman thanked the New Jersey Attorney General’s Office, under the direction of Acting Attorney General John Hoffman and Elie Honig, Director of the New Jersey Division of Criminal Justice, for their work in this investigation. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford; and the New Jersey State Police, under the direction of Colonel Joseph R. Fuentes, Superintendent of the New Jersey State Police, for their work in the investigation leading to today’s guilty plea. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Amy Luria and Maureen Nakly of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division in Newark, and Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael A. Monahan, the Chief of the Financial and Computer Crimes Bureau, Division of Criminal Justice, in the New Jersey Attorney General’s Office. Defense counsel: Peter R. Willis Esq., Jersey City, New Jersey
corruption CHICAGO―A suburban immigration attorney and a man who provided translation services for the lawyer and his law firm were arrested today after being indicted on federal charges for allegedly falsifying requests for asylum for a dozen clients over approximately a decade. In some instances, the charges allege that the attorney and interpreter falsely claimed that their clients were seeking asylum because their clients were subjected to religious persecution by Islamic extremists in Iraq. The attorney, ROBERT DEKELAITA, 51, of Glenview, and his contract interpreter, ADAM BENJAMIN, 61, of Skokie, were each charged with one count of conspiracy to commit immigration and naturalization fraud. DeKelaita was also charged with three counts each of immigration fraud and suborning perjury, and Benjamin was also charged with two counts each of immigration fraud and suborning perjury in a seven-count indictment that was returned by a federal grand jury on Sept. 4 and unsealed today following their arrests. Federal agents with the Department of Homeland Security Office of Inspector General and the FBI today executed a search warrant at the law offices of R.W. DeKelaita & Associates, LLC, located in the 5800 block of West Dempster Street, in Morton Grove. DeKelaita and Benjamin were scheduled to be arraigned at 2 p.m. today before U.S. District Judge Matthew Kennelly in Federal Court. The arrests and indictment were announced by Zachary T. Fardon, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois; Armando Lopez, Special Agent-in-Charge of the Homeland Security Office of Inspector General in Chicago; and Robert J. Holley, Special Agentin- Charge of the Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Homeland Security’s U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s Homeland Security Investigations (HSI), and Customs and Border Protection, as well as the Farmington Hills, Mich., Police Department, assisted in the investigation. Individuals granted asylum may later seek lawful permanent residence and, eventually, naturalized U.S. citizenship. The DHS Office of Inspector General will coordinate with other DHS branches to review the immigration status of DeKelaita’s clients, Mr. Lopez said. The indictment alleges that between 2000 and 2011, in exchange for fees, DeKelaita and Benjamin agreed to submit false information to USCIS on behalf of clients who were foreign nationals, as well as coach these clients on how to best present the false information to an asylum officer, and represent these clients in presenting the false information during asylum interviews. As part of the conspiracy, DeKelaita allegedly conducted screening interviews of his clients to determine information that might bar clients from lawfully receiving asylum. He then completed immigration forms on their behalf using false names, false religions, false travel dates, false dates of entry into the United States, false birthdays, and false family histories, and allegedly submitted these forms to USCIS. DeKelaita also wrote and created false asylum statements detailing fictitious accounts of purported religious persecution, including false accounts of rape and murder, the charges allege. The indictment alleges examples in which DeKelaita’s clients falsely claimed that they or immediate family members were victims of violence or threatened with violence by Islamic extremists in Iraq. DeKelaita allegedly also submitted and caused the submission of false affidavits, baptismal certificates, identity documents, and other documents to USCIS and the Executive Office for Immigration Review on behalf of their clients. DeKelaita signed his clients’ names on certain immigration forms without their knowledge or permission, the indictment alleges. DeKelaita and Benjamin allegedly assisted clients in memorizing false information in preparing them for asylum interviews. Benjamin allegedly intentionally mistranslated answers given by clients and added testimony not actually stated by them in an effort to secure asylum on their behalf. DeKelaita and Benjamin agreed and intended that their clients would obtain asylum and use it to seek lawful permanent residence and naturalization, according to the charges. The government is being represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher Grohman. Conspiracy to commit immigration and naturalization fraud, as well as each count of suborning perjury, carries a maximum sentence of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine, while each count of immigration fraud carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. The indictment also seeks forfeiture of approximately $60,000 from DeKelaita. If convicted, the Court must impose a reasonable sentence under federal sentencing statutes and the advisory United States Sentencing Guidelines. The public is reminded that an indictment contains only charges and is not evidence of guilt. The defendants are presumed innocent and are entitled to a fair trial at which the government has the burden of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption JACKSON, MS—Calvin Louis Smith, 58, a former Canton City Alderman, was sentenced to 66 months in prison followed by two years of supervised release for bribery, announced U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis and Acting FBI Special Agent in Charge Johnnie Sharp. He was also ordered to pay a $1,000 fine. In May, 2014, Smith was found guilty of accepting bribes in connection with a series of transactions made on behalf of the City of Canton, Mississippi. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Jerry Rushing.
corruption CHARLESTON, WV—United States Attorney Booth Goodwin announced that Cheryl Gray, 44, of Hilltop, West Virginia was sentenced today in federal court in Charleston to one year and one day in federal prison for mail fraud involving concealed weapons permits. Gray is a former employee of the Fayette County Sheriff’s Department where her duties included the collection of application fees for concealed weapons permits, and creating and submitting a list of permits issued by Fayette County to the West Virginia State Police. Gray previously pled guilty to mail fraud in June of 2014. At the plea hearing, Gray admitted that she stole the cash payments made by applicants for concealed weapons permits. She hid the theft by creating incomplete applicant lists and submitting them to the West Virginia State Police, omitting close to 400 names of applicants who had paid in cash. The fraud, which continued for more than six months, resulted in a combined loss to the Fayette County Sheriff’s Department and West Virginia State Police of approximately $40,000. The West Virginia State Police, Fayette County Sheriff’s Department, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation conducted the investigation. Defendant was sentenced by United States District Court Judge John T. Copenhaver, Jr.
corruption ORLANDO, FL—United States Attorney A. Lee Bentley, III announces the unsealing of an indictment charging Thomas S. Jackson (57, Longwood) and Samer S. Majzoub (53, Heathrow) with one count of conspiracy and three counts of bribery concerning programs receiving federal funds. If convicted, each faces a maximum penalty of five years in federal prison for the conspiracy count and ten years’ imprisonment for each bribery count. Jackson was arrested last week in Ashville, North Carolina. He made his initial appearance in the Western District of North Carolina on September 19, 2014, and was released on a bond. Jackson was the Chief of the Longwood Police Department from 1997 to May 28, 2010. According to the indictment, between October 2007 and the date of Jackson’s retirement from the Longwood Police Department, Majzoub paid Jackson more than $30,000 in bribes, in six different payments. The payments ranged from $3,700 to $6,200. In return, Jackson appointed Majzoub as an officer with the Longwood Police Department. Jackson also gave Majzoub the supervisory titles of Commander, Lieutenant, and Sergeant, and provided Majzoub with badges and credentials that represented him as an officer of the Longwood Police Department. Majzoub is a convicted felon. As a result of his prior federal felony conviction, Majzoub is prohibited from possessing a firearm or ammunition. Under Florida law, a convicted felon is not eligible to be employed or appointed as a law enforcement officer. An indictment is merely a formal charge that a defendant has committed a violation of federal criminal law, and every defendant is presumed innocent unless, and until, proven guilty. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Internal Revenue Service – Criminal Investigation, with assistance from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, and the Longwood Police Department. It will be prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Roger B. Handberg.
corruption WASHINGTON—A campaign manager was arrested late yesterday and accused of paying voters to vote in the November 2012 school board election in Donna, Texas. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson of the Southern District of Texas made the announcement. The four-count indictment charges Francisco “Frankie” Garcia, 47, of Donna, with conspiring to buy votes, paying for votes, and aiding and abetting others to buy votes stemming from the vote-buying scheme. Garcia was arrested the evening of Sept. 18, 2014, in Alton, Illinois, and will make his initial appearance in the Southern District of Illinois this afternoon. The indictment was returned under sea Sept. 16, 2014, and unsealed today following his arrest. According to the indictment, during the November 2012 general election, Garcia worked as a campaign manager for four candidates to the Donna School Board. During that time, he allegedly bought votes and worked with other campaign workers to pay voters and to offer to pay voters in this election to vote for particular candidates. The indictment alleges that Garcia paid voters by giving the voters either cocaine or cash in exchange for their votes. An indictment is merely an accusation, and the defendant is presumed innocent unless proven guilty in a court of law. Three campaign workers—Rebecca Gonzalez, 44, and Diana Balderas Castaneda, 48, both of Donna, Texas, and Guadalupe Escamilla, 72, of Weslaco, Texas—previously pleaded guilty to vote-buying charges stemming from this election. This case is being investigated by the FBI, and is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Monique Abrishami and Jennifer Blackwell of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Leo J. Leo of the Southern District of Texas.
corruption SAN JUAN, PR—On September 16, 2014, a federal grand jury in the District of Puerto Rico returned an indictment against state criminal defense attorney, Lemuel Velilla Reyes, charged with concealing a person from arrest, announced Rosa Emilia Rodríguez-Vélez, United States Attorney for the District of Puerto Rico. This investigation was led by the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) Public Corruptions Squad and the assistance of the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA). On July 14, 2011, Velilla-Reyes legally represented federal fugitive Wilfredo Rodríguez- Rodríguez, aka “Fredo”, aka “Cape”, aka “Capellan”, under the false name of “Felix Otero-Torres” on local drug and weapon charges. Wilfredo Rodríguez-Rodríguez has an outstanding arrest warrant since July 14, 2010, in a federal case U.S. v. José Colón-de Jesus, et. al. Crim. No. 10-251 (JAF) where he is listed the fifth individual in the 110 codefendant indictment for participating as a leader in a drug trafficking conspiracy to distribute controlled substances at the Virgilio Davila, Las Gardenias, Brisas de Bayamón, and Falin Torrech housing projects, and other areas within the Bayamon Municipality. Velilla-Reyes was known as the attorney for the drug trafficking organization which Rodríguez-Rodríguez was a part of, and had legally represented him in a prior criminal state case in 2006. In the early morning hours of July 14, 2011, the Police of Puerto Rico arrested Rodríguez-Rodríguez in Toa Baja while they were executing state arrest warrants. Upon his arrest, he provided the false name of Felix Otero-Torres and did not provide or have in his person any identification documents. While at the police station, attorney Velilla-Reyes arrived to legally represent Rodríguez-Rodríguez under the false name he had provided. Velilla-Reyes stood by while the charges against his client where brought forth under the false name. He then appeared in court during the local probable cause proceedings and falsely represented to the court that his client Felix Otero-Torres could not recall his social security number or his full address. Velilla-Reyes requested that bail be set without electronic monitoring and told the court he would continue to represent his client throughout all the proceedings. He also assured his client’s fulfillment of pre-trial release conditions and his appearance in court. Rodríguez-Rodríguez, who was affirmatively identified during the days that followed, did not show up to the police station for booking and did not return to any court proceeding. Velilla-Reyes continued as the attorney in record, but failed to appear in any of the subsequent court hearings. To this day Wilfredo Rodríguez-Rodríguez is still a fugitive. “Our efforts to eradicate corruption in the judicial system of Puerto Rico will include investigations and prosecutions such as this one. The actions committed by this attorney and his effort to conceal a federal fugitive from arrest through illegal conduct, undermine the public’s trust in the judicial system, which is a cornerstone to our democracy.” said Rosa Emilia Rodríguez-Vélez, U.S. Attorney for the District of Puerto Rico. “Acts like the ones alleged to have been committed by Attorney Lemuel Velilla, in this indictment, undermine the credibility of the judicial system and violates the trust and expectation of the residents of Puerto Rico.” said Carlos Cases, Special Agent in Charge for the FBI. “The FBI is fully committed to identify and investigate corruption at all levels.” Assistant U.S. Attorneys Myriam Y. Fernández and Jenifer Y. Hernández, Deputy Chiefs of the Narcotics Unit, are in charge of the prosecution of the case. If convicted the defendant faces a maximum sentence of five years or a fine of no more than $250,000.00, or both for count Title 18, United State Code, Section 1071. Indictments contain only charges and are not evidence of guilt. The defendant is presumed to be innocent until and unless proven guilty.
corruption BEAUMONT, TX—The former Director of Finance and Comptroller of the Beaumont Independent School District (BISD) have been sentenced to federal prison for federal violations in the Eastern District of Texas, announced U.S. Attorney John M. Bales today. Devin Wayne McCraney, 35, of Beaumont, pleaded guilty on Apr. 14, 2014, to the charge of fraud upon programs receiving federal funds and was sentenced to 68 months in federal prison today by U.S. District Judge Ron Clark. Sharika Baksh Allison, 43, of Beaumont, pleaded guilty on Apr. 14, 2014, to the charge of conspiracy to commit fraud upon programs receiving federal funds and was sentenced to 46 months in federal prison today by Judge Clark. McCraney and Allison were also ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $4,041,705.27. According to information presented in court, McCraney, Director of Finance for BISD, and Allison, Comptroller for BISD, devised schemes in which they embezzled over $4 million from BISD. They were indicted by a federal grand jury on Jan. 8, 2014. “These punishments demonstrate that if you violate the public trust, being the true will of the citizens of Beaumont to have and maintain a responsible public school system, you will be punished,” said U.S. Attorney Bales. “The Beaumont school district enjoys many good, dedicated educators and employees. This is the beginning of the end for those who chose to breach our trust, and it also begins the removal of the cloud that remains over the heads of those great employees who, on a daily basis, are responsible for the care and education of Beaumont’s children.” “These defendants knowingly and willfully abused their position of trust to steal education funds that were supposed to be used to provide services for the most innocent of victims—school children. That is unacceptable,” said Neil Sanchez, Special Agent in Charge of the U.S. Department of Education Office of Inspector General’s South Central Regional Office. “I’m proud of the work of OIG Special Agents and our law enforcement colleagues for holding these individuals accountable for their criminal actions.” “Personal greed put the children of BISD at risk, and eroded the public’s trust in our system,” said FBI Special Agent in Charge Perrye K. Turner. “Let today’s sentences help restore that trust and remind others that our elected and appointed officials must and will be held accountable at all levels of government. We cannot do this job alone, and we encourage individuals with information about public corruption to come forward.” “Today’s sentencings are just one step in the process of holding certain officials accountable for breaching the public’s trust,” said Jefferson County District Attorney Cory Crenshaw. “Today’s results are another example of the task force’s cooperative—federal, state and local law enforcement—efforts to investigate corruption within the BISD. Our mission, of identifying those who have failed to uphold their duty to the children of this community by committing fraud, will continue. Those who have committed crimes will be punished, and confidence in our school district will be rebuilt.” McCraney and Allison were both ordered to surrender to the Bureau of Prisons unit where they will be assigned by 2:00 p.m. on Oct. 21, 2014. McCraney requested a facility close to West Lake, LA. Allison requested the facility in Bryan/College Station, Texas, as it is the only federal facility housing women in Texas. This case was prosecuted as part of the Joint Task Force established in March 2014 between the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Texas and the Jefferson County District Attorney’s Office to investigate and prosecute major crimes—more specifically, violent crime and crimes related to the abuse of public trust in Jefferson County, Texas. If you have any information related to this matter, please call the Federal Bureau of Investigation at 409-832-8571. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the U.S. Department of Education Office of Inspector General. This case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Christopher T. Tortorice and Joseph R. Batte.
corruption TRENTON, NJ—The former mayor of Manalapan, New Jersey, was convicted at trial today on charges related to his acquisition of farmland in Monmouth County, New Jersey, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Andrew Lucas, 37, was found guilty today on all 11 counts of an indictment charging him with wire fraud, an illegal monetary transaction, loan application fraud, false statements to the IRS, aggravated identity theft, obstruction of a grand jury investigation and falsification of records in a federal investigation. The jury deliberated three hours before returning its verdict following a two-week trial before U.S. District Judge Freda L. Wolfson in Trenton federal court. According to documents filed in this case and the evidence at trial: On Dec.15, 2009, Lucas submitted a loan application to a New Jersey bank requesting $525,000 to finance his purchase of the Burke Farm property in Manalapan. Lucas provided the bank with falsified versions of his 2007 and 2008 tax returns, as well as a falsified version of a 2007 tax return for a relative whose name was also on the loan application. Lucas also falsely reported that he had a total of $210,000 in cash. Lucas owned and operated Lucas Capital Advisors LLC (Lucas Capital), through which he served as an investment advisor and manager to multiple individuals. To obtain the $250,000 down payment for the property, Lucas approached Bobby Janowski, who was a client of Lucas Capital, to pitch an investment in an entity called VLM Investments LLC (VLM). On Feb. 15, 2010, Lucas presented a written note to Janowski, which stated that the $250,000 investment was to be secured by “…interest in the equipment, fixtures, inventory and accounts receivable” of VLM. However, Lucas failed to inform Janowski that at the time the note was signed, VLM did not exist. Lucas also failed to disclose to Janowski that Lucas intended to make personal use of the funds. It was not until three days later, on Feb. 18, 2010, that Lucas created VLM by registering it with the State of New Jersey and the IRS, using the name and Social Security number of Lucas’ out-of-state relative, Thomas Littlefield, without his knowledge or permission. On Feb. 22, 2010, Lucas authorized the wiring of $250,000 from Janowski’s Lucas Capital investment account to a VLM bank account that had Lucas as the only authorized signer. On March 1, 2010, Lucas withdrew this money in the form of a bank check, which he provided the next day to the closing attorney for the purchase of the Burke Farm property. Lucas also filed tax returns for VLM for tax years 2011 and 2012, both times listing Littlefield’s name and Social Security number without Littlefield’s knowledge or permission. Federal investigators served Lucas with subpoenas on Feb. 7, 2013, for the records of VLM and Lucas Capital Advisors. In response, Lucas provided federal authorities with a fabricated and back-dated letter purporting to be from Littlefield concerning a transaction for the purchase of the Burke Farm property. The counts of wire fraud and falsification of records in a federal investigation are each punishable by a maximum potential penalty of 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Loan application fraud is punishable by a maximum potential penalty of 30 years in prison and a $1 million fine. The counts of conduction an illegal monetary transaction and obstruction of a grand jury investigation are each punishable by a maximum potential penalty of 10 years. Each of the charges of false statements to the IRS is punishable by a maximum potential penalty of five years in prison. Aggravated identity theft is punishable by a mandatory prison term of two years, to be run consecutive to any other sentence. Sentencing is scheduled for Jan. 20, 2015. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI Red Bank Office, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford; special agents of IRS-Criminal Investigation, under the direction of Acting Special Agent in Charge Jonathan D. Larsen; and investigators with the U.S. Attorney’s Office, for the investigation leading to today’s arrest. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Matthew Skahill in Camden and Rahul Agarwal in Newark, both of the U.S. Attorney’s Special Prosecutions Division.
corruption LAS VEGAS, NV—Clark County Family Court Judge Steven E. Jones and four co-defendants pleaded guilty today to conspiracy charges for defrauding over 22 people of millions in an investment fraud scheme involving bogus water rights and real estate transactions, announced U.S. Attorney Daniel G. Bogden for the District of Nevada and Laura Bucheit, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI for Nevada. As part of his plea agreement with the government, Jones agreed to step down from the bench and surrender his law license to the State Bar of Nevada. Jones, 56, Thomas A. Cecrle, Jr., 57, and Terry J. Wolfe, 59, of Henderson, Nev., and Mark L. Hansen, 56, of Corvallis, Ore., pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Jennifer A. Dorsey to one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud. Also in connection with the same fraud scheme, Constance C. Fenton, 70, of Gig Harbor, Wash., pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit money laundering. They each face up to 20 years in prison, $250,000 in fines, and mandatory restitution, and are scheduled to be sentenced on Jan. 26, 2015. A sixth defendant charged in the scheme, Ashlee M. Martin, 30, of Las Vegas, Nev., pleaded guilty on Aug. 11 to conspiracy to commit money laundering, and is scheduled to be sentenced in August 2015. “This prosecution was the result of a long, thorough, and resource-intensive investigation and should serve as a vivid reminder that public officials who use their offices as a means to commit a crime of whatever nature will be pursued vigorously and prosecuted to the utmost rigor of the law,” said U.S. Attorney Bogden. “Defendant Jones knowingly used his office to lull victims into a false sense of security about investments he knew were scams. No one is above the law, especially a person holding the office of judge.” “These guilty pleas serve as evidence to the public that the FBI, working with our law enforcement partners and the U.S. Attorney’s Office, will continue to ensure that no one is above the law, and when public corruption is identified, it will be aggressively investigated and prosecuted,” said Special Agent in Charge Bucheit. According to the plea memoranda, defendants lured victims into a fraud scheme by falsely telling them that Cecrle worked as a contractor for the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, purchasing and selling water rights worth millions of dollars as part of a secret government program. The co-conspirators then solicited money by falsely claiming that Cecrle needed short-term cash loans to complete his phantom water deals, loans he promised to repay in short order along with a very large return. Cecrle and his co-conspirators concocted a similar story involving a land deal on the Las Vegas Strip where Cecrle needed short-term loans to supposedly close a deal with Sir Richard Branson. In truth, however, Cecrle held no position with the federal government and there were no land or water rights deals. Using his office as an elected state court judge, defendant Jones knowingly vouched for Cecrle and the legitimacy of the deals to potential investors when he knew the deals were, in fact, scams. According to the plea memorandum, Jones continued to further the conspiracy by receiving money from a victim in the parking lot of the Family Division Courthouse, meeting with at least one potential investor in his chambers and elsewhere in the courthouse to discuss the investment, obtaining an “Own Recognizance” bond to release Cecrle from custody after he was arrested for bad checks he had passed to a victim, and opening and maintaining a joint checking account with Cecrle, through which flowed over $260,000 in illegal proceeds. During the entire conspiracy, which lasted from about September 2002 to October 2012, the defendants defrauded at least 22 victims of more than $2.6 million, money they quickly converted to their own use. The case was investigated by the FBI and prosecuted by First Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven W. Myhre and Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel R. Schiess of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Nevada. This prosecution is part of efforts underway by President Barack Obama’s Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force. President Obama established the interagency Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force to wage an aggressive, coordinated and proactive effort to investigate and prosecute financial crimes. The task force includes representatives from a broad range of federal agencies, regulatory authorities, inspectors general and state and local law enforcement who, working together, bring to bear a powerful array of criminal and civil enforcement resources. The task force is working to improve efforts across the federal executive branch, and with state and local partners, to investigate and prosecute significant financial crimes, ensure just and effective punishment for those who perpetrate financial crimes, combat discrimination in the lending and financial markets and recover proceeds for victims of financial crimes. For more information about the task force visit: www.stopfraud.com.
corruption ATLANTA—Patrick Jackson, a former janitorial services manager for DeKalb County and Georgia World Congress Center, has been indicted and arraigned on charges of mail fraud and bribery. “Jackson is charged with abusing his official positions with DeKalb County and the Georgia World Congress Center,” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. “According to the indictment, over a six-year period he accepted bribes in exchange for his helping a company attain and maintain exclusive government contracts.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated: “The FBI Atlanta office’s public corruption program remains very active and determined in exposing the criminal conduct of public officials. The investigation and indictment of Mr. Jackson serves as further example of the FBI’s commitment toward accountability for those serving the public and holding positions of trust.” According to United States Attorney Yates, the charges, and other information presented in court: Jackson was simultaneously employed by two government entities, DeKalb County and Georgia World Congress Center, from approximately 2006-2012. In both positions, he served as the manager of janitorial services. The indictment alleges that Jackson used his position as a public official to obtain favors from a company, identified only as “Company A,” that provided janitorial services to both DeKalb County and Georgia World Congress Center. Jackson was employed by “Company A” prior to his employment with DeKalb County and Georgia World Congress Center. While employed by DeKalb County and Georgia World Congress Center, Jackson lived in a luxury apartment in Atlanta that was being paid for and furnished by “Company A.” In exchange, Jackson agreed to use his position as a public official to benefit the interests of “Company A” in its business dealings with DeKalb County and Georgia World Congress Center. Jackson did not disclose to either employer that “Company A” was providing him with an apartment. The indictment alleges that, by accepting these bribes, Jackson deprived his employers of their right to his honest services. Patrick Jackson, 55, of Loganville, Ga., was arraigned before United States Magistrate Judge Linda T. Walker. Jackson was indicted by a federal grand jury on September 9, 2014. Members of the public are reminded that the indictment only contains charges. The defendant is presumed innocent of the charges and it will be the government’s burden to prove the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt at trial. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorneys Jamie L. Mickelson and Kamal Ghali are prosecuting the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Presse-mails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the home page for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Atlanta Division is http://www.justice.gov/usao/gan/.
corruption Timothy Cromer, a former Detroit Public Library official, was sentenced today to 10 years in prison for bribery and conspiracy to commit bribery, U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade announced today. Joining McQuade in the announcement were Special Agent in Charge Paul M. Abbate, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Detroit Field Office, and Jarod Koopman, Acting Special Agent in Charge, Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation. Cromer, 47, of West Bloomfield, the library’s Chief Administrative and Technology Officer from 2006 to 2013, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge George Caram Steeh. Cromer was charged with taking more than $1.4 million in bribes and kickbacks from contractors of the library. According to the indictment, Cromer helped co-defendant James Henley create a business in 2007 called Core Consulting & Professional Services, and then arranged for Core to win a bid to provide information technology services to the library. The contract, along with various change orders and extensions that Cromer approved, caused the library to pay Core $1.8 million. Cromer was also charged with receiving kickbacks from Ricardo Hearn, who is also charged in the indictment. Cromer was charged with approving no-bid professional services contracts for Hearn’s company, Cubemation, LLC, to perform information technology services for the library from 2008 until 2010. According to the indictment, Cubemation received about $2.8 million in payments from the Detroit Public Library. In total, Cromer is alleged to have accepted more than $1.4 million in kickbacks from Henley and Hearn. Through his plea, Cromer admitted that he received a bribe from Henley, and that he conspired with Hearn to commit bribery. Codefendants Henley and Hearn previously pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery, and will be sentenced on October 28, 2014. United States Attorney McQuade said, “Our public libraries exist to enrich our citizens, not to generate profits for the officials who work there. Today’s sentence protects the important interests of taxpayers, library patrons and the honest public servants who have dedicated themselves to the Detroit Public Library.” “As a government official, Mr. Cromer abused his position of trust and stole from the community,” stated Paul M. Abbate, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI Detroit Field Office. “Today’s sentencing reflects the resolve of law enforcement to continue the fight on behalf of our citizens, and bring those who violate their public oath to justice.” “The sizeable amount of the kickbacks Cromer received represents the degree to which he was cheating the public,” said IRS Acting Special Agent in Charge Jarod Koopman. “It is unacceptable to help yourself to public funds, but if you do IRS-Criminal Investigation will be there to seek justice on behalf of the citizens of Detroit.” The case was investigated by agents of the FBI and the IRS. This case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Elizabeth A. Stafford and Julie Beck.
corruption SANTA ANA, CA—An Orange County auctioneer who defrauded banks by accepting bribes to lower the amount of winning bids in trustee auctions was sentenced today to 24 months in federal prison, announced Acting United States Attorney Stephanie Yonekura and Bill L. Lewis, the Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Los Angeles Field Office. Reyna Peinado, 48, of Huntington Beach was sentenced this afternoon by United States District Judge Andrew J. Guilford. According to a plea agreement filed in this case, Peinado conspired with a confederate—identified in court papers by the initials “S.F.”—in a scheme to defraud banks. During the scheme, which started in February 2012 and lasted for about three months, Peinado conducted real estate auctions on the steps of the Orange County Courthouse on behalf of a trustee known as Reliable Posting and Publishing (RPP), which represented banks which held title of the foreclosed properties. Peinado began the auctions with an opening bid for a property located in Orange County, and attendees would then call out bids, all of which the defendant would tally before declaring a winning bidder. Once the trustee sales were conducted, Peinado called in the sale price and used an overnight courier to send a receipt of funds and cashiers’ checks from the winning bidder to RPP, which posted the sale price on the website for the property. At the conclusion of some of the trustee sales, Peinado contacted the winning bidder to solicit a bribe in order to reduce the purchase price of the property. In return for approximately $5,000 per property, Peinado reduced the sale price from between $15,000 to $57,000 less than the winning bid purchase price. By reducing the purchase price on seven properties, Peinado caused approximately $261,500 in losses to the banks. This investigation was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
corruption ATLANTA—Former attorney Michael Rene Berlon has been arraigned on federal charges of mail and wire fraud. “This defendant is charged with defrauding his own clients out of over $1.8 million,” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. “They came to him for legal help, and instead he drained their bank accounts.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated: “Individuals relying on the professionalism and trust of individuals like Mr. Berlon should be able to turn to someone when that trust is violated. The FBI, in being well positioned to investigate such allegations involving the diversion of funds through mail and wire fraud, is that someone.” According to United States Attorney Yates, the charges, and other information presented in court: Berlon, who practiced in Grayson, Ga., through his law firm, the Law Office of Michael R. Berlon, is charged with obtaining funds from clients of his law firm and other individuals through false pretenses. The indictment alleges that some clients provided money to him believing that he would create a trust for them, and would hold the funds in trust. Instead, Berlon used the funds for personal expenses, including to pay his American Express bill and to repay other clients. The indictment also alleges that in one instance, Berlon obtained money from two individuals who were looking for his assistance with starting a new business. He told the victims that he would help them get a loan, but they were required to provide a percentage of the requested loan amount as a down payment. Instead of assisting them with obtaining a loan, Berlon used the funds for his personal expenses and debts. In total, it is alleged that Berlon received at least $1.8 million in client funds from 2008-2013. Berlon, 55, of Grayson, Ga., was arraigned before Linda T. Walker, United States Magistrate Judge. He was indicted by a federal grand jury on September 9, 2014. Members of the public are reminded that the indictment only contains charges. The defendant is presumed innocent of the charges and it will be the government’s burden to prove the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt at trial. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Jamie L. Mickelson is prosecuting the case. Today’s announcement is part of efforts underway by President Obama’s Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force (FFETF) which was created in November 2009 to wage an aggressive, coordinated and proactive effort to investigate and prosecute financial crimes. With more than 20 federal agencies, 94 U.S. attorneys’ offices and state and local partners, it’s the broadest coalition of law enforcement, investigatory and regulatory agencies ever assembled to combat fraud. Since its formation, the task force has made great strides in facilitating increased investigation and prosecution of financial crimes; enhancing coordination and cooperation among federal, state and local authorities; addressing discrimination in the lending and financial markets and conducting outreach to the public, victims, financial institutions and other organizations. Over the past three fiscal years, the Justice Department has filed more than 10,000 financial fraud cases against nearly 15,000 defendants including more than 2,700 mortgage fraud defendants. For more information on the task force, visit www.stopfraud.gov. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Presse-mails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the home page for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Atlanta Division is http://www.justice.gov/usao/gan/.
corruption BALTIMORE, MD—U.S. District Judge Ellen L. Hollander sentenced Sean Graves, age 48, of Windsor Mill, Maryland, today to 28 months in prison followed by three years of supervised release for participating in a racketeering conspiracy that included the smuggling of drugs and contraband inside the Baltimore City Detention Center (BCDC). Earlier this week, four former correctional officers, Angela Johnson, age 35, Antonia Allison, age 28, and Javonne Lunkin, age 29, all of Baltimore, and Kevin Armstrong, age 27, of Gwynn Oak, Maryland, pleaded guilty to participating in the racketeering conspiracy. Additionally, last week, former correctional officer Tiffany Linder, age 28, former inmate Derius Duncan, age 24, both of Baltimore, and Linnard Wortham, a/k/a “Stu,” age 29, of Pikesville, Maryland, pleaded guilty to the racketeering conspiracy. Wortham also pleaded guilty to possession with intent to distribute crack cocaine. The guilty pleas and sentence were announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Secretary Gregg Hershberger of the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services; Baltimore Police Commissioner Anthony W. Batts; and Baltimore City State’s Attorney Gregg L. Bernstein. This case was developed as a result of the efforts of the Maryland Prison Task Force, formed in 2011 with the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services, local, state and federal law enforcement agencies, and prosecutors. The Task Force has met regularly for over three years, generating recommendations to reform prison procedures and producing leads that have been pursued by state, local and federal criminal investigators. The investigation is continuing. According to court documents, the Black Guerilla Family (BGF) has been the dominant gang at the BCDC, and in several connected facilities, including the Baltimore Central Booking Intake Center (BCBIC), the Women’s Detention Center, which houses many men, and in the Jail Industries Building. Graves, Johnson, Armstrong, Allison, Linder and Lunkin were correctional officers (COs) at the BCDC who smuggled contraband into the jail for distribution by BGF inmates. Graves smuggled Percocet, marijuana and tobacco into the jail from 2011 to 2013 on behalf of BGF leader Tavon White. Graves acted in concert with other correctional officers. Johnson admitted that she smuggled drugs such as Percocet, into the jail. Allison admitted that she worked with other COs to smuggle drugs such as Suboxone and other prescription pills as well as marijuana, into the jail. Allison knew other inmates and COs who were involved in smuggling, and in sexual relationships. Armstrong admitted that he smuggled prescription pills, marijuana, cell phones and tobacco into the jail from 2011 to 2012. Armstrong acted in concert with Allison and other correctional officers. Linder admitted that she smuggled prescription pills into BCDC for BGF inmates such as Tavon White. Linder also warned White of impending searches of BCDC and White in turn warned other BGF members. Lunkin was a CO at the BCDC Jail Industries Building in 2012 to 2013, and cooperated with others, including CO Katera Stevenson, in smuggling contraband into the jail. Lunkin knew other inmates and COs were involved in smuggling and in sexual relationships. According to his plea agreement, Duncan is a BGF member. Duncan was in pretrial custody at BCDC from 2012 to 2013 and directed the smuggling of contraband into the jail, including cell phones, tobacco and other drugs, through COs who received payments, gifts or a share of the profits. Duncan had a sexual relationship with one of the COs involved in contraband trafficking. Duncan and his closest BGF allies frequently used others to obtain contraband outside the prison, and hold it or deliver it to COs for smuggling. Wortham supplied contraband, including marijuana, that was smuggled into BCDC. COs such as Jasmine Thornton and Kimberly Dennis received the contraband from Wortham and then smuggled the contraband to BCDC inmates, including Duncan and Jamar Anderson. Law enforcement executed a search warrant at Wortham’s residence on November 20, 2013 and seized crack cocaine, marijuana, drug paraphernalia and $4,000. U.S. District Judge Ellen L. Hollander scheduled sentencing for: Wortham on January 9, 2015 Allison on January 16, Duncan on January 23, Linder, Lunkin and Armstrong on January 30, and Johnson on February 6. The defendants face a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison for the racketeering conspiracy. Wortham also faces a mandatory minimum of 10 years in prison and a maximum penalty of life in prison for the drug offense. To date, 34 of the 44 defendants charged in the conspiracy have pleaded guilty, including 21 correctional officers. One defendant has died. Trial is scheduled to begin November 17, 2014 for the remaining defendants. U.S. Attorney Rosenstein recognized the efforts of the other members of the Maryland Prison Task Force, including: Colonel Marcus L. Brown, Superintendent of the Maryland State Police; Chief Mark A. Magaw of the Prince George’s County Police Department; United States Marshal Johnny Hughes; Special Agent in Charge Karl C. Colder of the Drug Enforcement Administration—Washington Field Division; Tom Carr, Director of the Washington-Baltimore High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area; and Dave Engel, Executive Director of the Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI, Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services, Baltimore Police Department, and Maryland Prison Task Force, for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant United States Attorneys Robert R. Harding and Ayn B. Ducao, who are prosecuting this Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force case.
corruption Todd Ryan Frazier, 32, of Grand Rapids, Michigan, was sentenced to twelve months and one day in federal prison as a result of his conviction for Embezzlement and Theft from the Carterville School District, a unit of local government that received federal funds, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of Illinois, Stephen R. Wigginton, announced today. Frazier was also ordered to serve two years’ supervised release following his release from prison, to pay restitution totaling $100,420.80, and to serve two hundred hours of community service. “I cannot stress enough that public service is a public trust. If you violate the public’s trust, you will be punished.” said United States Attorney Wigginton. Court documents reveal that Frazier, from August of 2008 and continuing through February of 2012, engaged in a scheme to defraud the Carterville School District, Unit 5, in Williamson County, while he was the School Business Official, which included the duties and responsibilities to act as the treasurer and payroll officer for the district. Frazier abused his position of public trust over a three and a half year period causing a loss of approximately $114,000. Although Frazier pled guilty to one count of a multiple count indictment, all of his actions in the remaining counts were considered as relevant conduct by the Court in determining the appropriate sentence to impose. There was evidence that Frazier’s manipulation of the financial records of the school district caused an immense disruption and a lot of effort to rectify. The successful prosecution is the result of an investigation conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation with the assistance of the Carterville School District. The case was handled by Assistant U.S. Attorney Norman R. Smith.
corruption OCALA, FL—United States Attorney A. Lee Bentley, III announces that Jason Monroe Epstein (29, Orlando) has pleaded guilty to a one-count indictment charging him with receipt of a bribe by a public official. Epstein faces a maximum penalty of 15 years in federal prison. A sentencing date has not yet been set. According to the plea agreement, Epstein was employed as a Corrections Officer by the Federal Bureau of Prisons at the Coleman Federal Correctional Complex in Sumter County. Based on information from inmates at the facility, agents discovered that Epstein had been smuggling marijuana and tobacco products into the prison. In exchange for these items, the inmates had arranged for third parties to send Epstein numerous wire transfers under false names. During the course of the investigation, Epstein was interviewed by agents and admitted that he had smuggled marijuana and tobacco into the prison over a two-year period, from April 2012 to April 2014. Epstein also admitted that he had received “hundreds of dollars” in illegal payments for his actions. This case was investigated by Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Department of Justice, Office of the Inspector General. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Robert E. Bodnar, Jr.
corruption WASHINGTON—A former LaPorte County deputy auditor has been indicted by a federal grand jury in the Northern District of Indiana for embezzling over $150,000 from the LaPorte County government and committing tax fraud. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney David Capp of the Northern District of Indiana made the announcement. The indictment returned on Sept. 10, 2014, charges Mary Ray, 66, of La Porte, Indiana, with two counts each of theft of government monies and of making false statements on a tax return. According to the indictment, from September 2011 through December 2012 and while she was working as an auditor, Ray embezzled more than $5,000 from LaPorte County, which had received more than $10,000 in federal benefits in both 2011 and 2012. The indictment also alleges that Ray underreported her income on her U.S. Individual Tax Returns in 2011 and 2012 by failing to report the embezzled funds. An indictment is merely an accusation, and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. This case was investigated by the FBI and IRS-Criminal Investigation, with assistance from the Indiana State Police, the LaPorte County Sheriff’s Department and the Indiana State Board of Accounts. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Peter Halpern of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Donald J. Schmid of the Northern District of Indiana.
corruption Jeffrey Bednarek, a former employee at the California Department of Motor Vehicles office in El Cajon, California, was sentenced today by U.S. District Court Judge Cathy A. Bencivengo to three years in prison for his leadership role in a conspiracy to commit bribery, identification document fraud and witness tampering. In addition to the prison sentence imposed, the court also ordered Bednarek to pay a fine of $25,000. In handing down the sentence, Judge Bencivengo told the defendant that as a DMV employee and a former corrections officer, he should have known better. “You were in fact violating the public trust…You had to know it was wrong.” In comments at today’s hearing, Assistant U.S. Attorney Joseph Orabona argued for a significant sentence and gave examples of Bednarek’s cavalier attitude about his crimes. “Bednarek’s greed overrode his integrity. His attempt to alter the testimony of a witness just prior to trial showed his determination to mask the truth about his criminal activities.” Orabona told the judge that Bednarek processed a fraudulent license for an undercover agent, and after it was complete, he handed the agent the temporary license, made the sign of the cross, and said, “Be good. Be gone. And sin no more.” The prosecutor also read text messages from Bednarek to co-conspirator Jim Bean, referring to the substantial amount of cash he was collecting through the bribery scheme. “Come drop the package chubby. Cha-ching.” Bednarek pleaded guilty on January 28, 2014. According to court documents, Bednarek was a Licensing Registration Examiner at the El Cajon DMV who was responsible for conducting driving tests for driver’s license applicants. Beginning in at least April 2009, and continuing up to at least April 26, 2012, Bednarek conspired with his co-defendants to commit federal program bribery and identification document fraud. In his plea agreement, Bednarek admitted that he falsely entered “passing” scores for both written and behind-the-wheel tests for applicants who applied for regular (Class C) and commercial (Class A) driver’s licenses in exchange for bribes. Bednarek also acknowledged that he directed others to enter false “passing” test scores and that he created false driving test score sheets to create the appearance that the applicant had completed the test. Bednarek said in his plea agreement that during the conspiracy, he produced more than 100 fraudulent driver’s permits and licenses, and that applicants paid more than $50,000 in total bribes for permits and licenses that he fraudulently produced. While awaiting an upcoming trial that was scheduled for December 2, 2013, Bednarek tampered with one of the Government’s witnesses, the plea agreement said. According to court documents, Bednarek was arrested on November 13, 2013 pursuant to a complaint for witness tampering. On November 22, 2013, Judge Bencivengo ordered that Bednarek be detained pending trial. Bednarek admitted in his plea agreement that between January 26, 2013 and November 4, 2013, he knowingly attempted to corruptly persuade a Government witness to alter his testimony, namely, to provide false testimony regarding cash bribes that Bednarek had received for his aggravating role in the conspiracy. Bednarek admitted that he intended to prevent and influence the Government witness’s testimony in the trial that was scheduled for December 2, 2013. U.S. Attorney Laura Duffy said, “Public corruption is one of our highest priorities. Today’s sentence demonstrates that those who violate the public’s trust will be held accountable for their crimes. We thank our partners at the FBI and DMV for their commitment to this important investigation.” “Our department takes any type of crime among our employees very seriously,” said DMV Director Jean Shiomoto. “Our own DMV Investigations Unit and other law enforcement agencies are always on the lookout for this type of illegal activity in any of our field offices.” Of the 31 defendants charged in this widespread corruption scheme (related Criminal Case Nos. 12CR1852-CAB, 13CR0121-CAB, and 13CR0592-CAB), 30 of the 31 defendants, including Bednarek, have pleaded guilty to felony conduct, namely, conspiracy to commit bribery and identification document fraud. One defendant is a fugitive. All of the former DMV employees convicted in this case were sentenced to prison, and most of the recruiters and driver’s license applicants received probationary sentences. In total, the Court imposed approximately $119,000 in fines. The following table provides a summary of the crimes and sentences for almost all of the defendants in the widespread corruption scheme: Defendant Case Number Charge(s) Sentence Jim Lynn Bean 12CR1852-CAB Conspiracy Bribery 597 days in prison, three years’ supervised release, Fine of $25,000 Jeffrey Thomas Bednarek 12CR1852-CAB Conspiracy Bribery Identification Document Fraud Witness Tampering 36 months in prison, three years’ supervised release, Fine of $25,000 Scott David Friedli 12CR1852-CAB Conspiracy Four months in prison, two years’ supervised release, Fine of $1,500 Marco Beltran 12CR1852-CAB Conspiracy Six months in prison, two years’ supervised release, Fine of $4,000 Gabriella Villanueva 12CR1852-CAB Conspiracy Five years’ probation, Fine of $200 Bashar Assad Azaria 12CR1852-CAB Conspiracy Five years’ probation, Fine of $2,000 Reenan Esa Kuza 12CR1852-CAB Conspiracy Two years’ probation, Fine of $3,000 Usman Aliyev 12CR1852-CAB Conspiracy Five years’ probation, Fine of $2,100 Abdulmajed Alhokair 12CR1852-CAB Conspiracy Five years’ probation, Fine of $1,000 Ahmad Alarbeed 12CR1852-CAB Conspiracy Five years’ probation, Fine of $1,000 Mohammed Alsuwaidi 12CR1852-CAB Conspiracy Five years’ probation, Fine of $1,000 Khalid Abdulaziz Al-Sowaidi 12CR1852-CAB Conspiracy Five years’ probation, Fine of $1,000 Talal Bass Almousharji 12CR1852-CAB Conspiracy Five years’ probation, Fine of $900 Virginia Pena 12CR1852-CAB Conspiracy 51 days in prison, two years’ supervised release, Fine of $600 Gizem Yontar 12CR1852-CAB Conspiracy Five years’ probation, Fine of $1,000 Douri Zafer 12CR1852-CAB Conspiracy Five years’ probation, Fine of $1,000 Asiel Bahjat Tomika 12CR1852-CAB Conspiracy Five years’ probation, Fine of $4,600 Angel Salvador Astimibay 12CR1852-CAB Conspiracy Five years’ probation, Fine of $1,000 Bekzad Mirhanov 12CR1852-CAB Conspiracy Five years’ probation, Fine of $1,000 Jesus Leon 13CR0121-CAB Conspiracy Five years’ probation, Fine of $200 Jesse Mario Bryan 13CR0592-CAB Conspiracy Bribery 6 months in prison, three years’ supervised release, Fine of $25,000 Alexander Gonzalez 13CR0529-CAB Conspiracy 12 days in prison, 32 months’ supervised release, Fine of $8,000 Frank Tom Attiq 13CR0592-CAB Conspiracy Five years’ probation, Fine of $200 Ali Al Nadawi 13CR0592-CAB Conspiracy Five years’ probation, Fine of $1,500 Saleh Almuzini 13CR0592-CAB Conspiracy Five years’ probation, Fine of $1,000 Matthew Allan Elliott 13CR0592-CAB Conspiracy Five years’ probation, Fine of $1,000 Mohamed Alali 13CR0592-CAB Conspiracy Five years’ probation, Fine of $800 James Lester Shaw 13CR0592-CAB Conspiracy 10 days in prison, two years’ supervised release, Fine of $4,000 Hassan Hamad Althani 13CR0592-CAB Conspiracy Five years’ probation, Fine of $1,000 These cases are the result of an active, ongoing criminal investigation. Anyone with information about corruption at the DMV is asked to contact the Federal Bureau of Investigation at 1-877-NO-BRIBE (662-7423), or the DMV’s Investigations Branch-Office of Internal Affairs at 626-851-0173. DEFENDANT Criminal Case No. 12CR1852-CAB Jeffrey T. Bednarek Age: 54 SUMMARY OF CHARGES Count 1: Title 18, United States Code, Section 371 — Conspiracy to Commit Bribery and to Produce Unauthorized Identification Documents — statutory maximum sentence of five years’ custody, a maximum fine of $250,000, special assessment of $100, and a maximum term of supervised release of three years. Count 2: Title 18, United States Code, Section 666(a)(1)(B) — Bribery — statutory maximum sentence of 10 years’ custody, special assessment of $100, and a maximum term of supervised release of three years. Count 7: Title 18, United States Code, Section 1512(b)(1) — Witness Tampering — statutory maximum sentence of 20 years’ custody, a maximum fine of $250,000, special assessment of $100, and a maximum term of supervised release of three years. INVESTIGATING AGENCIES Federal Bureau of Investigation Department of Motor Vehicles Investigations Division
corruption WASHINGTON—A federal jury returned guilty verdicts today against former Virginia Governor Robert F. McDonnell and former First Lady of Virginia Maureen G. McDonnell for participating in a scheme to violate federal public corruption laws. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Dana J. Boente of the Eastern District of Virginia, Special Agent in Charge Adam S. Lee of the FBI’s Richmond Field Office, Chief Richard Weber of Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI) and Colonel W. Steven Flaherty, Virginia State Police Superintendent, made the announcement. Robert McDonnell and Maureen McDonnell, both 60 and of Glen Allen, Virginia, were convicted of one count of conspiracy to commit honest-services wire fraud and one count of conspiracy to obtain property under color of official right. Robert McDonnell was convicted of three counts of honest-services wire fraud and six counts of obtaining property under color of official right, while Maureen McDonnell was convicted on two of the three honest services wire fraud counts and five of the six counts of obtaining property under color of official right. Maureen McDonnell also was convicted of one count of obstruction of an official proceeding. In total, Robert McDonnell was convicted of 11 of 13 counts and Maureen McDonnell was convicted of 9 of 13 counts. “As Virginia’s governor, Robert McDonnell and his wife turned public service into a money-making enterprise, abusing the Commonwealth’s highest office to benefit a Virginia businessman in exchange for more than $170,000 in gifts and loans,” said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. “In pursuit of a lifestyle that they could ill afford, McDonnell and his wife eagerly accepted luxury items, designer clothes, free vacations and the businessman’s offer to pay the costs of their daughter’s wedding. In return, McDonnell put the weight of the governor’s mansion behind the businessman’s corporate interests. The former governor was elected to serve the people of Virginia, but his corrupt actions instead betrayed them. Today’s convictions should send a message that corruption in any form, at any level of government, will not be tolerated.” “This is a difficult and disappointing day for the Commonwealth of Virginia and its citizens,” said U.S. Attorney Boente. “When public officials turn to financial gain in exchange for official acts, we have no choice but to prosecute them. I thank the Assistant U.S. Attorneys, FBI, Virginia State Police, and the Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation for their exceptional efforts in the investigation and prosecution of this case.” “Public corruption, particularly among our elected officials, is the FBI’s highest criminal investigative priority,” said FBI Special Agent in Charge Lee. “We will engage and engage vigorously when we receive credible allegations of any federal, state, or local public official illegally using the power of their position to receive a personal benefit. The people of the Commonwealth deserve better than pay-to-play politics.” “When public officials commit crimes as part of their official duties, they are violating the public trust,” said IRS-CI Chief Weber. “IRS-CI agents play a critical role in rooting out public corruption of elected officials. The public expects more of their leaders in government and our agents work tirelessly on their behalf to ensure that we are all playing by the same rules.” According to the evidence presented at trial, from April 2011 through March 2013, the McDonnells participated in a scheme to use the former governor’s official position to enrich themselves and their family members by soliciting and obtaining payments, loans, gifts and other things of value from Star Scientific, a Virginia-based corporation, and Jonnie R. Williams Sr., then Star Scientific’s chief executive officer. The McDonnells obtained the things of value in exchange for the former governor performing official actions on an as-needed basis to legitimize, promote, and obtain research studies for Star’s products, including the dietary supplement Anatabloc. According to court records and evidence, the McDonnells obtained from Williams more than $170,000 in direct payments as gifts and loans, thousands of dollars in golf outings, and numerous other things of value. As part of the scheme, the official actions that Robert McDonnell performed included arranging meetings for Williams with Virginia government officials, hosting and attending events at the Governor’s Mansion designed to encourage Virginia university researchers to initiate studies of Star’s products and to promote Star’s products to doctors for referral to their patients, contacting other Virginia government officials as part of an effort to encourage Virginia state research universities to initiate studies of Star’s products, and promoting Star’s products and facilitating its relationships with Virginia government officials. The evidence further showed that the McDonnells attempted to conceal the things of value received from Williams and Star to hide the nature and scope of their dealings with Williams from the citizens of Virginia by, for example, routing things of value through family members and corporate entities controlled by the former governor to avoid annual disclosure requirements. Similarly, on Feb. 15, 2013, Maureen McDonnell was questioned by law enforcement about the loans and made false and misleading statements regarding the defendants’ relationship with Williams. Additionally, after her interview with law enforcement, Maureen McDonnell drafted a handwritten note to Williams in which she falsely attempted to make it appear that she and Williams had previously discussed and agreed that she would return certain designer luxury goods rather than keep them permanently, all as part of an effort to obstruct, influence, and impede the investigation. The case is being investigated by the FBI, IRS-CI and the Virginia State Police. The case is being prosecuted by Deputy Chief David V. Harbach II of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Michael S. Dry, Jessica D. Aber and Ryan S. Faulconer of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia.
corruption ATLANTA—Angela Thicklin (f/k/a Angela Stanback Kinlaw) has been indicted for allegedly conspiring with Raytosha Elliott, a former contracting official with the Georgia Department of Defense, to obtain contracts in exchange for illegal kickbacks. “Thicklin is the second vendor charged in this corruption case involving a former Georgia National Guard employee who is charged with awarding contracts to her friends, like Thicklin, in exchange for illegal kickbacks,” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated: “The alleged actions of these defendants reflect that they have no sense of duty and that they defy the rule of law. They exhibited a very active scheme to defraud. The FBI, in working with its many law enforcement partners, will continue to make such public corruption cases an investigative priority.” Special Agent in Charge John F. Khin, Southeast Field Office, Defense Criminal Investigative Service, commented, “Ensuring the integrity of Department of Defense programs will always remain one of DCIS’ top priorities. DCIS special agents, in collaboration with our Federal and State partners, will fully investigate and bring to justice corrupt employees who undermine the public trust, and use their Government positions for personal gain.” “Corruption at any level diminishes the hard work and dedication of the thousands of government employees who are dedicated to providing honest services to the American public,” stated Special Agent in Charge, IRS Criminal Investigation Veronica F. Hyman-Pillot. “IRS-Criminal Investigation stands committed to weed out individuals who to take the path to financial success through greed and corruption.” Interim Inspector General Deb Wallace of the State of Georgia Office of Inspector General said, “This second indictment should serve notice that the State of Georgia Office of Inspector General and its investigative counterparts will vigorously pursue all parties who choose to perpetrate fraud schemes in government.” According to United States Attorney Yates, the charges and other information presented in court: From May 2007 through April 2012, Elliott worked for the Georgia Department of Defense, the state agency charged with coordinating and supervising all agencies and functions of the Georgia National Guard. Elliott worked as an Engineering Operations Manager out of the Clay National Guard Center, located at Dobbins Air Reserve Base, in Marietta, Ga. In that position, Elliott worked with engineering firms to develop bid-ready construction projects, prepared bid documents, and oversaw no-bid purchase orders. Under the rules governing the contracting process that Elliott oversaw, projects that cost less than $5,000 did not need to go through a competitive bidding process, allowing Elliott to award the contracts. She then certified that the work had been completed for those projects, and facilitated payment to the vendors who allegedly completed such projects. In that position, Elliott awarded numerous contracts under $5,000 to vendor companies created by her friends and associates, including co-defendant Angela Thicklin. In return, the friends and associates paid Elliott kickbacks, equal to 50% of the value of the contracts, for steering the contracts to them. Elliott falsely certified that work had been completed when, in fact, it had not been, in order to facilitate payment. One of the vendor companies was 3M Construction LLC, which was owned by co-defendant Thicklin. Elliott awarded 3M Construction at least six contracts with a total value of approximately $25,000. Those contracts were for a variety of services supposedly to be performed by 3M Construction, including electrical work, landscaping, and HVAC work. Instead, the defendants split the money awarded under these contracts and spent it on personal items, including travel, meals, and merchandise. As part of the scheme, Elliott owned a company named Tech Group Investments, LLC. Thicklin took money she had obtained from the Georgia Department of Defense contracts, and paid kickbacks to Elliott through this company. Elliott also awarded at least 17 contracts, worth approximately $75,000, to a company named Total Source Solution, LLC, which was owned by Lakeysha Ellis. On March 27, 2014, Ellis pleaded guilty to conspiring with Elliott to obtain these contracts in exchange for kickbacks. The alleged scheme involving Total Source Solution worked in a similar fashion to the one involving 3M Construction. Additionally, Ellis pleaded guilty to conspiring with Elliott to defraud Baumueller-Nuermont Corporation, an industrial equipment company with offices in Atlanta, Ga. The indictment alleges that Elliott and Ellis defrauded the company from January 2009 through May 2011, when Ellis was an accountant there. Ellis falsified employee records in the corporation’s payroll system to disguise payments to the defendants’ two companies. Ellis created at least two phantom employees by altering the names of real employees (by switching their first and last names) and slightly changing their Social Security numbers. She then caused the payroll system to make fraudulent salary payments to Total Source Solution and Tech Group Investments for these new, non-existent employees. Baumueller-Nuermont lost about $85,000 from this scheme. The 15-count superseding indictment charges Elliott, 34, and Thicklin, 43, both of Atlanta, Ga., with conspiracy and bribery of a public official. Elliott is also charged with separate counts of conspiring with Ellis and wire fraud. After the original indictment was returned on January 14, 2014, Ellis, 36, of Atlanta, Ga., pleaded guilty to two counts of conspiracy. Members of the public are reminded that the indictment contains only allegations. The defendant is presumed innocent of the charges and it will be the government’s burden to prove the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt at trial. This case is being investigated by Special Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; the U.S. Department of Defense, Office of Inspector General, Defense Criminal Investigative Service; Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation; the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command; the Deputy Inspectors General of the State of Georgia Office of the Inspector General; and the Georgia Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Stephen H. McClain is prosecuting the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Presse-mails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the home page for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Atlanta Division is http://www.justice.gov/usao/gan/.
corruption LAREDO, TX—Ricardo Rangel, justice of the peace for Webb County Precinct 2-Place 2, has been convicted of extortion under color of official right, announced U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson today. Rangel, 48, of Laredo, admitted that on or about March 25, 2012, he accepted a bribe while he was acting in his official capacity as a justice of the peace. Specifically, he accepted $250 from a bail bondsman in exchange for granting a $1,000 surety bail bond on an individual who had been arrested and charged with driving while intoxicated. U.S. District Judge Diana Saldaña, who accepted the guilty plea, will set sentencing at a later date. At that time, he faces a maximum of 20 years in federal prison and a possible $250,000 fine. He was permitted to remain on bond pending that hearing. The FBI investigated. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Daniel C. Rodriguez and Roberto Ramirez.
corruption Corruption in a Small Texas Town Investigation Dismantles Family-Run Criminal Operation 08/29/14 Public corruption arrests and convictions in major metropolitan areas usually garner a great deal of national attention. But big cities don’t have a monopoly on crooked politicians—they can be found anywhere. Like Progreso, Texas, a small town a few miles north of the U.S.-Mexico border. For almost a decade—from 2004 to 2013—several members of the same family, all Progreso government officials, used their positions to exact bribes and kickbacks from city and school district service providers. Through their illegal activities, they distorted the contract playing field, cheated the very citizens they purported to serve, stole education money from the children whose educations they were supposed to ensure, and lined their own pockets in the process. Until the FBI got wind of what was going on, that is, and opened a case. Our investigation—which included confidential sources, undercover scenarios, financial record examinations, and witness interviews—collected plenty of evidence of wrongdoing and ultimately led to guilty pleas by the defendants. And on August 11, 2014, they were all sentenced to federal prison terms. Jose Vela, the patriarch of the Vela family and leader of the corruption scheme, served as maintenance and transportation director for the Progreso Independent School District (PISD), which from 2004 to 2013 received more than a million dollars per year in federal program grants and funds from the U.S. Department of Education. But Vela’s scope of influence was much broader than his job title suggested, thanks in part to the positions of his sons—Progreso Mayor Omar Vela and Michael Vela, president of the PISD Board of Trustees. The elder Vela let it be known that contracts with the school district could be bought, and he accepted bribes and kickbacks from contractors willing to pay. Jose Vela maintained control over the PISD and its board of trustees through a system of reward and retaliation: He distributed bribe money he received from contractors to trustees who voted as he directed; when trustees didn’t vote with him, they were retaliated against—usually demoted, transferred, or ultimately forced out of their positions. Vela’s influence was not just over the PISD. With his sons’ help, he took bribes and kickbacks from any entity—like construction companies and architectural firms—that wanted a public project contract with the city of Progreso. Vela, in effect, created a “pay to play” contracting environment in the city for such projects as municipal parks and libraries. He even extracted money from the lawyer who was supposed to be advising the school board. Omar and Michael Vela assisted their father by collecting bribes from contractors and delivering the payments to him, keeping a portion for themselves. A third Vela son was sentenced to a federal prison term as well for his role in a separate but related scheme. Orlando Vela, employed by the PISD as a risk manager, also headed a company purportedly in the business of supplying office products to school districts and admitted submitting thousands of dollars worth of phony invoices to the PISD for office supplies never received by the district. And finally, also caught up in the overall corruption scheme was Jesus Bustos, who admitted to paying bribes and kickbacks to obtain contracts for his architectural firm. He was sentenced on August 27, 2014. Public corruption at any level of government cannot be tolerated, and the FBI—uniquely situated to investigate it—will continue to address these allegations wherever we find them. Resource: - More on our public corruption program
corruption BOSTON—The former Chief of the Lee Police Department (LPD) was charged today in U.S. District Court in Springfield with wire fraud, mail fraud and money laundering. Joseph Buffis, 56, of Pittsfield, Mass., was charged today in a superseding indictment with three counts of wire fraud, mail fraud, and four counts of money laundering. On Aug. 8, 2013, Buffis was charged in an initial indictment with extortion and three counts of money laundering. According to the superseding indictment, as the Lee Police Chief, Buffis solicited public donations on behalf of the Edward J. Laliberte Toy Fund (Toy Fund), ostensibly to use for toy purchases, primarily by sending notices on LPD letterhead to a local newspaper, The Berskshire Eagle, for publications in its print and online editions. The Eagle regularly published Buffis’ Toy Fund notices. Buffis’ notices were materially fraudulent and false in that they failed to disclose that Buffis was using a substantial part of the donations for his personal use. Based upon Buffis’s solicitations, individuals provided both cash and check donations to the Toy Fund for distribution to needy families. In addition, others donated toys to the Toy Fund, thus providing Buffis with a reserve of toys that he could provide to applicants without having to use Toy Fund monies. As alleged in the superseding indictment, from January 2007 through December 2011, Buffis deposited 706 checks into the Toy Fund account from 343 different donors totaling $52,105. During this same period, Buffis deposited cash into the Toy Fund account only once: a deposit of $145 on Nov. 23, 2010. Buffis wrote only one Toy Fund check of $250 to a needy family in December 2009. From Jan. 1, 2007 through Jan. 31, 2012, Buffis wrote approximately 53 checks totaling approximately $51,044, a substantial portion of which he used for the benefit of himself and his family. These checks included checks written to Buffis and/or “Cash” and deposited into accounts which he owned with family members. Also, in February 2012, Buffis extorted a $4,000 check Adonation,@ payable to the Toy Fund from two individuals who were facing prostitution-related charges. Buffis then deposited the check into the Toy Fund’s bank account and quickly withdrew $3,990 of these funds in three checks that he wrote to “Cash” but deposited into a joint bank account that he operated with his wife. Buffis used the diverted funds to pay various personal expenses. When law enforcement commenced an investigation into this activity, Buffis repeatedly lied about the disposition of these funds. In addition, soon after Buffis became Chief in 2011, he arranged for the Town of Lee to provide the LPD with four iPhones—one for himself and three for other LPD officers. Rather than distribute the three iPhones to his LPD officers, Buffis gave them to his wife and their two children for their own personal use. From October 2011 to August 2013, Buffis caused the Town of Lee to mail Verizon Wireless a series of checks totaling approximately $5,091 for the phones he gave to his wife and children. The charging statutes provide a sentence of no greater than 20 years in prison, five years of supervised release, and a fine of $250,000 on each count. Actual sentences for federal crimes are typically less than the maximum penalties. Sentences are imposed by a federal district court judge based upon the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and other statutory factors. United States Attorney Carmen M. Ortiz; Vincent B. Lisi, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Boston Field Division; and Timothy P. Alben, Commissioner of the Massachusetts State Police, made the announcement today. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven H. Breslow of Ortiz’s Springfield Branch Office. The details contained in the superseding indictment are allegations. The defendant is presumed to be innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
corruption BALTIMORE, MD—Former correctional officer Derrick Jones, age 41, of Baltimore, pleaded guilty today to participating in a racketeering conspiracy that included the smuggling of drugs and contraband inside the Baltimore City Detention Center (BCDC). Correctional officer Aisha Fraction, age 26, of Baltimore, pleaded guilty to the same charge on August 27, 2014. On August 27, 2014, Judge Ellen L. Hollander sentenced BGF member and inmate Frederick Morrison, age 30, also of Baltimore, to five years in prison, consecutive to the state sentence he is currently serving, followed by three years of supervised release, for the racketeering conspiracy. The guilty pleas and sentence were announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Secretary Gregg Hershberger of the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services; Baltimore Police Commissioner Anthony W. Batts; and Baltimore City State’s Attorney Gregg L. Bernstein. This case was developed as a result of the efforts of the Maryland Prison Task Force, formed in 2011 with the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services, local, state and federal law enforcement agencies, and prosecutors. The Task Force has met regularly for over three years, generating recommendations to reform prison procedures and producing leads that have been pursued by state, local and federal criminal investigators. The investigation is continuing. According to court documents, the Black Guerilla Family (BGF) has been the dominant gang at the BCDC, and in several connected facilities, including the Baltimore Central Booking Intake Center (BCBIC), the Women’s Detention Center, which houses many men, and in the Jail Industries Building. Jones and Fraction were employed as correctional officers (COs) at the Baltimore City Detention Center. Jones and Fraction admitted that they smuggled contraband, including prescription pills, marijuana, and cellular phones, into BCDC for further distribution by inmates who were BGF members, such as Tavon White and Steven Loney. At times, other correctional officers helped Jones and Fraction to smuggle the contraband into the prison. Fraction had a personal relationship with at least one BGF inmate and was aware of other inmates and COs who were involved in smuggling and in sexual relationships. The defendants knew that by smuggling such contraband into BCDC, they furthered the racketeering enterprise of BGF. According to his plea agreement, Morrison is a member of BGF and was in pretrial custody at BCDC from 2012 to 2013. During that time, Morrison was involved with and often directed the smuggling of contraband into BCDC, including cell phones, tobacco, marijuana and other drugs, through the services of COs, who received payments, gifts or a share of the profits. Morrison had a sexual relationship with at least one of the COs involved in contraband trafficking. Morrison and his closest BGF allies frequently used various people to obtain contraband outside the prison, hold it or deliver it to COs for smuggling. Morrison also helped conceal contraband from prison officials at BCDC who would conduct periodic searches for contraband. U.S. District Judge Ellen L. Hollander scheduled sentencing for Jones and Fraction, on January 9, 2015 and December 5, 2014, respectively. The defendants face a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison for the racketeering conspiracy. Co-defendant Raylanair Reese, age 32, of Baltimore, is scheduled for a rearraignment on Friday, August 29, 2014, and several other defendants are scheduled for rearraignment next week. To date, twenty-six of the 44 defendants charged in the conspiracy have pleaded guilty, including 16 correctional officers. One defendant has died. Trial is scheduled to begin November 17, 2014 for the remaining defendants. U.S. Attorney Rosenstein recognized the efforts of the other members of the Maryland Prison Task Force, including: Colonel Marcus L. Brown, Superintendent of the Maryland State Police; Chief Mark A. Magaw of the Prince George’s County Police Department; United States Marshal Johnny Hughes; Special Agent in Charge Karl C. Colder of the Drug Enforcement Administration—Washington Field Division; Tom Carr, Director of the Washington-Baltimore High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area; and Dave Engel, Executive Director of the Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI, Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services, Baltimore Police Department, and Maryland Prison Task Force, for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant United States Attorneys Robert R. Harding and Ayn B. Ducao, who are prosecuting this Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force case.
corruption WASHINGTON—Jeff Smith, 40, of Washington, D.C., a former candidate for the Council of the District of Columbia, was sentenced today to 60 days in jail, in addition to a year of probation and a $10,000 fine, for filing a false and misleading report with the District of Columbia’s Office of Campaign Finance that concealed campaign contributions in excess of those permitted under D.C. campaign finance laws. The sentencing was announced by U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen Jr., Timothy A. Gallagher, Acting Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office, and Thomas J. Kelly, Special Agent in Charge of the Washington Field Office of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI). Smith pled guilty to the felony charge in June 2014 in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. He was sentenced by the Honorable Anita Josey-Herring. Judge Josey-Herring’s sentence imposes six months of incarceration, but suspends all but 60 days of the time; requires Smith to serve one year of probation, during which time he is to perform 400 hours of community service; and imposes a fine of $10,000, the statutory maximum for his offense. The charge involved contributions to Smith’s 2010 campaign for the Ward 1 seat on the Council of the District of Columbia. Smith admitted that more than $140,000 was secretly channeled to his campaign from businessman Jeffrey E. Thompson. Smith lost the election. Smith is one of two Council candidates to plead guilty to charges in recent months. Kelvin Robinson, 53, pled guilty on June 3, 2014, in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia to a charge of conspiring to violate District of Columbia campaign finance laws by defrauding the District of Columbia’s Office of Campaign Finance. He is awaiting sentencing. Thompson is the former chairman, chief executive officer, and majority owner of Thompson, Cobb, Bazilio and Associates (TCBA), a corporation that provided accounting, management, consulting, and tax services. He also is the former chairman, chief executive officer, and owner of D.C. Healthcare Systems, Inc. (DCHSI), an investment holding and for-profit corporation. Both companies generated millions of dollars in government contracts. Thompson and six others earlier pled guilty to charges involving Thompson’s illegal contributions to numerous federal and District of Columbia campaigns. In addition to Robinson, who also admitted receiving excess contributions from Thompson, the others who have pled guilty include Eugenia C. Harris, a business owner in the District of Columbia; Lee A. Calhoun, an executive for TCBA; Stanley Straughter, the owner of a business based in Philadelphia; Vernon Hawkins, who was a volunteer advisor in 2010 for a 2010 mayoral campaign; and Troy White, the owner of a marketing company based in New York. Another person, former District of Columbia Council member Michael A. Brown, pled guilty to charges in an unrelated bribery investigation. In those proceedings, he publicly admitted that his campaign committees had secretly received money from Thompson. As part of Thompson’s guilty plea, on March 10, 2014, he agreed to cooperate fully in an ongoing investigation. No date has been set for his sentencing. “Jeff Smith now faces incarceration because he secretly financed his campaign for the District of Columbia Council with more than $140,000 from one of the District’s biggest contractors,” said U.S. Attorney Machen. “He kept the true source of this money—businessman Jeffrey Thompson—from the public by filing false campaign reports. Despite all his illegal spending, Jeff Smith lost the election, and now his criminal activity has been exposed. He is among three candidates so far to admit receiving dirty money from Jeff Thompson, who has pled guilty to his crimes and is continuing to cooperate in our investigation. We remain determined to hold accountable all those who benefited from Jeff Thompson’s illegal campaign spending.” “Accepting and concealing illegal contributions for a political campaign will not be overlooked or downplayed,” said Acting Assistant Director in Charge Gallagher. “Today, Mr. Smith accepted his penalty for undermining campaign finance laws in the District of Columbia. Together with our law enforcement partners, the FBI will continue to investigate corruption, no matter at what level, in the District of Columbia.” According to a statement of offense submitted as part of Smith’s guilty plea, from at least December 2009 through December 2010, Smith, Thompson and others acted to make and to receive—and to conceal—campaign contributions in excess of those permitted under the District of Columbia Campaign Act. Smith admitted that Thompson, with his knowledge, provided more than $140,000 of in-kind contributions, contributions which were concealed from the Office of Campaign Finance. Smith provided a budget to Thompson in March 2010, seeking $140,975 for voter registration and get-out-the-vote efforts for his campaign. Then, from March 2010 until September 2010, Thompson used funds, via TCBA and DCHSI, to provide more than $140,000 in coordination with and in support of Smith’s campaign committee. At least part of this money was spent on campaign services and materials. The District of Columbia Campaign Act imposes limits on the amount of money that can be contributed to a District of Columbia candidate and that candidate’s principal campaign committee. It also prohibits any person or corporation from making a contribution in the name of another, including by reimbursement. Finally, it requires principal campaign committees to file periodic reports of receipts and disbursements. The law limits the amount that an individual or entity can contribute in the aggregate in the primary and general elections of a candidate seeking election to a Ward seat to $500. In his plea, Smith admitted that, acting on behalf of his campaign committee, he filed, that is, authorized to be filed, a false and misleading report to the D.C. Office of Campaign Finance in December 2010. The report concealed the excessive and unreported in-kind contributions provided directly and indirectly by Thompson. In announcing the sentence, U.S. Attorney Machen, Acting Assistant Director in Charge Gallagher, and Special Agent in Charge Kelly commended the work of those who investigated the case from the FBI’s Washington Field Office and IRS-CI. They also expressed appreciation for the work of Assistant U.S. Attorneys Michael K. Atkinson, Jonathan P. Hooks, Ellen Chubin Epstein, Lionel André, and Ephraim “Fry” Wernick, of the Fraud and Public Corruption Section of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia, who are prosecuting cases in the investigation. Finally, they acknowledged the efforts of others who worked on the case from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, including Deborah Connor, Chief of the Fraud and Public Corruption Section, as well as Criminal Investigators Matthew J. Kutz, Mark Crawford, Melissa Matthews, and Durand Odom; Forensic Accountants Crystal Boodoo and Maria Boodoo; Paralegal Specialists Krishawn Graham, Tasha Harris, and Corrine Kleinman; Former Paralegal Specialists Shanna Hays and Nicole Wattelet; and Legal Assistant Angela Lawrence.
corruption CHICAGO—A former Cook County employee who managed a $10.3 million federal grant to assist county residents who were impacted by floods in 2008 was arrested today on federal charges for allegedly engaging in a fraud scheme with several contractors and swindling at least $330,000 from the program. A vendor who allegedly kicked-back more than $100,000 was indicted together with the former county official. BARRY CROALL, 45, of Montgomery, Ill., was a county program manager who oversaw disbursement of the grant funds for Cook County’s Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management. He was charged with two counts of wire fraud and one count of federal program theft in a five-count indictment that was returned by a federal grand jury yesterday and unsealed today following his arrest. Croall was scheduled to be arraigned at 3:30 p.m. today before U.S. District Judge Andrea Wood in Courtroom 1725 in the Dirksen United States Courthouse. RONALD FORD, 57, of Country Club Hills, who operated Strategic Management Services S.M.S. LLC, was charged with one count each of conspiracy and federal program theft. He was not arrested and is scheduled to be arraigned at 11 a.m. tomorrow before Judge Wood. According to the indictment, between April 2010 and January 2011, Croall arranged for Strategic Management Services, a nonprofit corporation, and three other companies to perform services that were eligible to be paid for with grant funds. Croall allegedly arranged for the businesses to submit false documents inflating the amount of compensation they were entitled to and then obtained portions of the grant payments they received as kick-backs. Croall allegedly used the funds for his own personal use, including mortgage payments for rental properties he owned in Yorkville through his company, Dove US; the purchase of a condominium unit in Yorkville; credit card payments; homeowner association fees; and an automobile. The indictment seeks forfeiture of at least $330,000 and the Yorkville condo. The indictment alleges that Croall arranged for Strategic Management Services and Companies A and B to perform certain work on homes eligible for payment under the grant, including damage assessments, inspections, coordination of contractor visits, and related work. Strategic Management and Company A submitted invoices indicating that they had performed work at specified rates on approximately 900 and 500 homes, respectively, but the invoices allegedly overstated the number of homes and the amount of work that was performed. As part of the scheme, Croall allegedly directed Strategic Management and other companies to submit their invoices to a nonprofit corporation, rather than to Cook County, for payment. Strategic Management and Companies A and B submitted a series of invoices in 2010, totaling approximately $741,000, to the nonprofit corporation, and the county then paid funds from the grant to the nonprofit corporation, based in part on Croall’s approval. Croall also allegedly arranged for Company C to install 1,000 appliances in eligible homes and to pay a commission to Company A as part of the scheme. Croall then allegedly devised ways to obtain funds from the various vendors, including being employed by Company B as an independent contractor for a two-year term at $72,000 a year. Ford allegedly kicked-back at least $108,000 in cash to Croall. The arrest and indictment were announced by Zachary T. Fardon, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois; Robert J. Holley, Special Agent-in-Charge of the Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and Patrick Blanchard, Cook County Inspector General. The government is being represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Lindsay Jenkins. Each count of wire fraud carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine, or an alternate fine of twice the loss or twice the gain, whichever is greater, and restitution is mandatory. Each count of federal program theft carries a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. If convicted, the Court must impose a reasonable sentence under federal sentencing statutes and the advisory United States Sentencing Guidelines. The public is reminded that an indictment contains only charges and is not evidence of guilt. The defendants are presumed innocent and are entitled to a fair trial at which the government has the burden of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption The United States Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania announced today that a criminal Information has been filed in U.S. District Court in Scranton charging the Chief of the Wilkes-Barre Township Volunteer Fire Department, John Yuknavich, age 51, of Wilkes-Barre Township, Pennsylvania, with stealing in excess of $5,000 from the fire department and Wilkes-Barre Township in the course of his duties as Chief of that fire department between 2008 and 2011. According to United States Attorney Peter Smith, Yuknavich was responsible for ensuring the deposit of monthly funds received from Wilkes-Barre Township, as well as all other funds received either through charitable contributions or annual state aid received from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Yuknavich allegedly deposited only part of the monthly $3500 check received from Wilkes-Barre Township intended to pay fire department bills, and took the remainder of the check in cash, most of which he used for his personal benefit. Federal law prohibits theft or intentional misapplication of $5,000 or more from local government programs that receive more than $10,000 in federal funds annually. The Government also filed a plea agreement with Yuknavich which must be approved by the U.S. District Court. The agreed upon restitution included in the plea agreement is $45,000. An additional term of the plea agreement requires Yuknavich to resign his position as an officer or any other official title he holds with the Wilkes-Barre Township Volunteer Fire Department within ten days of the entry of the plea. The prosecution is the result of a joint investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Luzerne County District Attorney’s Office, and the Pennsylvania State Police with the assistance of the Pennsylvania Department of the Auditor General. Prosecution is assigned to Assistant United States Attorney Michelle Olshefski. Indictments and Criminal Informations are only allegations. All persons charged are presumed to be innocent unless and until found guilty in court. A sentence following a finding of guilty is imposed by the Judge after consideration of the applicable federal sentencing statutes and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines. In this case, the maximum penalty under the federal statute is 10 years’ imprisonment, a term of supervised release following imprisonment, and a fine. Under the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, the Judge is also required to consider and weigh a number of factors, including the nature, circumstances and seriousness of the offense; the history and characteristics of the defendant; and the need to punish the defendant, protect the public and provide for the defendant’s educational, vocational and medical needs. For these reasons, the statutory maximum penalty for the offense is not an accurate indicator of the potential sentence for a specific defendant.
corruption BUFFALO, NY—U.S. Attorney William J. Hochul, Jr. announced today that Francis Tronolone, 33, of Buffalo, N.Y., who was convicted of stealing thousands of dollars from the City of Buffalo, a Governmental agency which receives federal funding, was sentenced to six months in prison by U.S. District Judge, Richard J. Arcara. The defendant has also been ordered to pay $9,000 in restitution. “As we have stated previously, this office intends to prosecute any public official responsible for stealing money or breaching their public trust,” said U.S. Attorney William Hochul. “This marks the fourth defendant who from a single government agency did just that.” Assistant U.S. Attorney Maura K. O’Donnell, who handled the case, stated that the defendant was employed by the City of Buffalo for approximately 10 years. During that time, the defendant held various positions within the Department of Parking Enforcement, including parking meter collector and parking meter mechanic. In this capacity, Tronolone was responsible for collecting coins deposited into parking meters and repairing malfunctioning meters. During the period of his employment, the defendant stole approximately $9,000 in coins from city parking meters, money that was supposed to be deposited into the City treasury. Some of the money was stolen from parking meters that had been rigged by other parking meter mechanics. Tronolone kept a small cooler in the back of his vehicle where he would conceal the stolen coins. In 2011, the City of Buffalo’s Department of Parking Enforcement initiated a review of parking meters after suspecting that quarters were being stolen from the meters. That review and subsequent investigation by the City of Buffalo and the FBI revealed that hundreds of thousands of dollars had been stolen from the City by multiple employees. Tronolone is the third employee of the Department of Parking Enforcement to be sentenced in this case. James Bagarozzo was convicted of stealing over $200,000 from Buffalo parking meters and sentenced to 30 months in prison on August 16, 2013. Bagarozzo was also ordered to pay $210,000 in restitution. Lawrence Charles has also been convicted of stealing over $10,000 from Buffalo parking meters and was sentenced to six months and prison and ordered to pay $15,000 in restitution. A fourth employee, Franklin Lopez, pleaded guilty to stealing thousands of dollars from the City of Buffalo, and will be sentenced on October 16, 2014. The sentencing is the culmination of an investigation on the part of Special Agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Buffalo Police Department, under the direction of Commissioner Daniel Derenda.
corruption WASHINGTON—A former Iowa State Senator pleaded guilty today to concealing payments he received from a presidential campaign in exchange for switching his support and services from one candidate to another and to obstructing a subsequent investigation into his conduct. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and Acting Assistant Director in Charge Timothy A. Gallagher of the FBI’s Washington Field Office made the announcement. “An elected official admitted that he accepted under-the-table payments from a campaign committee to secure his support and services for a candidate in the 2012 presidential election,” said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. “Campaign finance reports should be accurate and transparent, not tools for concealing campaign expenditures. Lying by public officials – whether intended to obstruct the FEC or federal investigators – violates the public trust and the law, and the Department of Justice does not tolerate it.” “Today, Mr. Sorenson has taken responsibility for his crimes,” said Acting Assistant Director in Charge Gallagher. “Exploiting the political process for personal gain will not be tolerated, and we will continue to pursue those who commit such illegal actions.” Kent Sorenson, 42, of Milo, Iowa, pleaded guilty today to one count of causing a federal campaign committee to falsely report its expenditures to the Federal Election Commission (FEC) and one count of obstruction of justice in connection with the concealed expenditures. The guilty plea was taken by Chief Magistrate Judge Celeste F. Bremer of the Southern District of Iowa for later review by Senior District Court Judge Robert W. Pratt. Sentencing will be scheduled at a later date. According to a statement of facts filed with the plea agreement, Sorenson admitted that he had supported one campaign for the 2012 presidential election, but from October to December 2011, he met and secretly negotiated with a second political campaign to switch his support to that second campaign in exchange for concealed payments that amounted to $73,000. On Dec. 28, 2011, at a political event in Des Moines, Iowa, Sorenson publicly announced his switch of support and work from one candidate to the other. The payments included monthly installments of approximately $8,000 each and were concealed by transmitting them to a film production company, then through a second company, and finally to Sorenson and his spouse. In response to criticism of his change of support for the candidates, Sorenson gave interviews to the media denying allegations that he was receiving any money from the second campaign committee, and noted that the committee’s FEC filings would show that the committee made no payments to him. In his plea agreement, Sorenson also admitted that he gave false testimony to an independent counsel appointed at the request of the Iowa Senate Ethics Committee, which was investigating allegations from a former employee of the first presidential campaign. Sorenson testified falsely to the independent counsel about the concealed payments, in part to obstruct investigations that he anticipated by the FBI and FEC. The case is being investigated by the FBI’s Washington Field Office, with assistance from the Omaha Field Office and the Des Moines Resident Agency. The case is being prosecuted by Election Crimes Branch Director Richard C. Pilger and Trial Attorney Robert J. Higdon Jr. of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section.
corruption WASHINGTON—A former Iowa State Senator pleaded guilty today to concealing payments he received from a presidential campaign in exchange for switching his support and services from one candidate to another and to obstructing a subsequent investigation into his conduct. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and Acting Assistant Director in Charge Timothy A. Gallagher of the FBI’s Washington Field Office made the announcement. “An elected official admitted that he accepted under-the-table payments from a campaign committee to secure his support and services for a candidate in the 2012 presidential election,” said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. “Campaign finance reports should be accurate and transparent, not tools for concealing campaign expenditures. Lying by public officials—whether intended to obstruct the FEC or federal investigators—violates the public trust and the law, and the Department of Justice does not tolerate it.” “Today, Mr. Sorenson has taken responsibility for his crimes,” said Acting Assistant Director in Charge Gallagher. “Exploiting the political process for personal gain will not be tolerated, and we will continue to pursue those who commit such illegal actions.” Kent Sorenson, 42, of Milo, Iowa, pleaded guilty today to one count of causing a federal campaign committee to falsely report its expenditures to the Federal Election Commission (FEC) and one count of obstruction of justice in connection with the concealed expenditures. The guilty plea was taken by Chief Magistrate Judge Celeste F. Bremer of the Southern District of Iowa for later review by Senior District Court Judge Robert W. Pratt. Sentencing will be scheduled at a later date. According to a statement of facts filed with the plea agreement, Sorenson admitted that he had supported one campaign for the 2012 presidential election, but from October to December 2011, he met and secretly negotiated with a second political campaign to switch his support to that second campaign in exchange for concealed payments that amounted to $73,000. On Dec. 28, 2011, at a political event in Des Moines, Iowa, Sorenson publicly announced his switch of support and work from one candidate to the other. The payments included monthly installments of approximately $8,000 each and were concealed by transmitting them to a film production company, then through a second company, and finally to Sorenson and his spouse. In response to criticism of his change of support for the candidates, Sorenson gave interviews to the media denying allegations that he was receiving any money from the second campaign committee, and noted that the committee’s FEC filings would show that the committee made no payments to him. In his plea agreement, Sorenson also admitted that he gave false testimony to an independent counsel appointed at the request of the Iowa Senate Ethics Committee, which was investigating allegations from a former employee of the first presidential campaign. Sorenson testified falsely to the independent counsel about the concealed payments, in part to obstruct investigations that he anticipated by the FBI and FEC. The case is being investigated by the FBI’s Washington Field Office, with assistance from the Omaha Field Office and the Des Moines Resident Agency. The case is being prosecuted by Election Crimes Branch Director Richard C. Pilger and Trial Attorney Robert J. Higdon Jr. of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section.
corruption ATLANTA—Elaine Boyer, the former Commissioner of District 1 in DeKalb County, Ga., has been arraigned on charges relating to her embezzlement of county funds and misuse of her DeKalb County credit card. “As an elected County Commissioner, Ms. Boyer had a duty to serve the best interests of the citizens of DeKalb County,” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. “Instead of honoring that commitment, Ms. Boyer stole from the citizens she was sworn to serve by diverting thousands of dollars in county funds to her personal bank account and using her county-issued credit card like it was her own.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated: “Public corruption based investigations often stem from actions that would be seen as clearly improper and illegal to the average person. The charges in this case, however, reflect criminal actions of a twenty-two year veteran DeKalb County Commissioner who knew fully the nature of her actions and she will now face the consequences of those actions. The FBI places a high priority toward investigating allegations of public corruption due to the extensive harm that it can cause on many levels and we ask that anyone with information regarding such allegations to please contact their nearest FBI field office.” According to United States Attorney Yates, the charges, and other information presented in court: In DeKalb County, Ga., the Board of Commissioners (“BOC”) serves as the legislative branch of the DeKalb County Government. The BOC is comprised of seven part-time commissioners, who are elected to serve four-year terms. Each of the seven Commissioners is responsible for the management of their respective offices, which includes controlling the offices’ budget and hiring staff members, contractors, and consultants. In recent years, the operating budget for a Commissioner’s office has been approximately $250,000 per year. The Commissioners may use their budget only for county-related business. Since 1992, Ms. Boyer served as the Commissioner of District 1, which serves citizens in north DeKalb County, including in Brookhaven, Dunwoody, Tucker, and Smoke Rise, Ga. Among other responsibilities, Ms. Boyer sat on the BOC’s Finance, Budget, and Audit Committee and was the Chairwoman of the Employee Relations and Community Services Committee. Boyer’s term of office was to expire in 2016; however, Boyer resigned yesterday. In September 2009, as the Commissioner of District 1, Ms. Boyer retained an individual (“Advisor”) supposedly to assist her with government consulting and advisory duties on issues that affected her constituents. From September 2009 to November 2011, false invoices were submitted to Ms. Boyer’s office for consulting services purportedly rendered by Advisor. In fact, Advisor performed no services for Ms. Boyer, District 1 constituents, or DeKalb County. Ms. Boyer used the false invoices as a basis to authorize payments to Advisor. Based on requisition requests from Ms. Boyer, DeKalb County mailed approximately 35 checks to Advisor for consulting services that were never performed. In total, DeKalb County paid Advisor more than $78,000, believing that legitimate services had been performed for the county. After being paid by DeKalb County, Advisor funneled approximately 75% of the money received from DeKalb County into Ms. Boyer’s personal bank account. Between September 2009 and November 2011, Advisor deposited more than $58,000 in DeKalb County funds into Ms. Boyer’s personal bank account (while retaining the remainder of the money). In turn, Ms. Boyer used the money deposited into her account to pay personal expenses, including purchases at hotels and high-end department stores. Additionally, in her capacity as a Commissioner, DeKalb County issued Ms. Boyer a Visa Purchasing Card (“P-Card”) to make county-related purchases. On January 14, 2010, she signed a Cardholder Users’ Agreement stating she would not use the P-Card to make personal purchases. From October 2010 to February 2014, Ms. Boyer made more than 50 personal purchases on her P-Card, including purchasing airline tickets and hotel rooms for herself and her family for personal travel. In total, she made over $15,000 worth of purchases on her P-Card for personal goods and services. Today, Elaine Boyer, 57, of Stone Mountain, Ga., was charged via Criminal Information with conspiring to committed mail fraud and with wire fraud. She is scheduled to plead guilty at 3:00 p.m., on September 3, 2014, before U.S. District Court Judge Orinda D. Evans. Members of the public are reminded that the information only contains charges. The defendant is presumed innocent of the charges and it will be the government’s burden to prove the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt at trial. This case is being investigated by Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorneys Jeffrey W. Davis and Kurt R. Erskine are prosecuting the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Presse-mails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the home page for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Atlanta Division is http://www.justice.gov/usao/gan/.
corruption LEXINGTON, KY—Timothy Alexander Conley, the Morgan County Judge-Executive, admitted in federal court today that he solicited and accepted over a hundred thousand dollars in illegal kickbacks from a bridge contractor. Conley pleaded guilty in Lexington before U.S. District Judge Gregory Van Tatenhove to a charge of honest services mail fraud. “The people of Morgan County placed their trust in Tim Conley, electing him as their Judge-Executive,” said Kerry B. Harvey, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky. “Mr. Conley admitted in open court that he has betrayed the good people of Morgan County through the operation of an elaborate and criminal kickback scheme. This was not a one time lapse in judgment. Mr. Conley essentially transformed the public office he held to a criminal enterprise in order to serve his own purposes. The people of Morgan County deserved better and the price of this sort of criminal conduct is steep. We take no part of our responsibilities more seriously than the prosecution of corrupt public officials. Our law enforcement partners are to be congratulated on their superb work in this matter and, along with them, we will remain vigilant in the fight against public corruption in our district.” Conley admitted that, between early 2009 through August 2013, he rigged the county’s competitive bidding process to ensure that contracts for certain Morgan County bridges were awarded to PBTHNOJJ Construction, a Salyersville, Ky., bridge contractor owned by Kenneth and Ruth Gambill. Conley admitted that, as part of that scheme, he directed Kenneth Gambill to deliver kickbacks to him from the proceeds of PBTHNOJJ Construction’s bridge contracts. For example, in 2013, Conley secretly altered bid documents for three bridges to ensure that PBTHNOJJ Construction would receive the contract to build each bridge. Conley solicited $15,000 per bridge and accepted $45,000 in cash from Kenneth Gambill for the three bridges. According to the plea agreement, these kickbacks were part of a scheme to defraud the citizens of Morgan County of their right to Conley’s honest services. Conley and the Gambills were indicted in December 2013. Last month, Kenneth and Ruth Gambill each pleaded guilty to conspiring to launder the proceeds of Conley’s kickback scheme. Kerry B. Harvey, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky; Howard Marshall, Special Agent in Charge, FBI, and Jack Conway, Kentucky Attorney General, jointly announced the guilty plea today. The investigation was conducted by the FBI and the Kentucky Attorney General’s Office. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew T. Boone and trial attorney Jennifer Blackwell with the Public Integrity Section of the United States Department of Justice. Conley will be sentenced on December 2, 2014. He faces a maximum prison sentence of 20 years and a $250,000 fine. The Gambills will be sentenced on November 18, 2014 and they each face a maximum of 20 years in prison and up to a $500,000 fine. However, any sentence will be imposed by the Court after consideration of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and the federal statutes.
corruption KANSAS CITY, KS—The former technology director for the City of Lenexa appeared in U.S. District Court here Monday on charges of wire fraud and theft, U.S. Attorney Barry Grissom said. Andrew L. Davey, 44, Overland Park, Kan., is charged with five counts of wire fraud and one count of theft of government funds. The indictment alleges that Davey used city funds to buy electronic devices that he then sold on e-Bay. The indictment alleges Davey was responsible for stealing more than $98,800 worth of merchandise from the city including digital cameras and Apple MacBook computers. If convicted, he faces a maximum penalty of 20 years in federal prison and a fine up to $250,000 on each wire fraud count, and a maximum penalty of 10 years and a fine up to $250,000 on the theft charge. The Lenexa Police Department and the FBI investigated. Assistant U.S. Attorney Chris Oakley is prosecuting.
corruption WASHINGTON—Three Puerto Rico police officers, Erick Rivera Nazario, Angel Torres Quinones and Antonio Rodriguez Caraballo today pleaded guilty to federal civil rights charges in connection with the fatal beating of 19-year-old Jose Luis Irizarry Perez, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Molly Moran for the Civil Rights Division, United States Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodriguez-Velez for the District of Puerto Rico, and Special Agent in Charge Carlos Cases of the FBI San Juan Field Office. These pleas, in conjunction with other recent pleas by Jimmy Rodriguez Vega, David Colon Martinez and Miguel Negron Vazquez brings the total number of Puerto Rico police officers pleading guilty to charges related to this incident to six. According to documents filed in connection with the guilty pleas, former officer Rodriguez Vega and Lieutenant Rivera Nazario struck Irizarry Perez with their police batons while former officer Colon Martinez physically restrained Irizarry Perez during an election evening celebration at the Las Colinas housing development in Yauco, Puerto Rico, on Nov. 5, 2008. Rivera Nazario pleaded guilty to one count of depriving Irizarry Perez of his civil rights by striking him with his police baton. Torres Quinones pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice for providing misleading information to the local Puerto Rico prosecutor that initially investigated the matter. Former Sergeant Rodriguez Caraballo pleaded guilty to one count of perjury for making a false statement to the federal grand jury. On Aug. 22, 2014, guilty pleas were entered by Colon Martinez and Negron Vazquez for their role in the case. Colon Martinez pleaded guilty to one count of making a false statement to the FBI and one count of perjury for making a false statement to the federal grand jury that investigated the incident. Negron Vazquez pleaded guilty to making a false statement to the FBI. Rodriguez Vega pleaded guilty on March 8, 2013, to one count of depriving Irizarry Perez of his civil rights by striking him with his police baton. “This case reflects the department’s commitment to ensuring that those officers who violate their oath by using excessive force or obstructing a federal investigation will be held accountable,” said Acting Assistant Attorney General Moran. “While the vast majority of police officers serve with the highest distinction, the Justice Department stands ready to investigate and prosecute those officers who cross the line and engage in criminal conduct.” “We rely upon our police officers to protect and serve the community, but through their illegal actions, these officers abused their power and violated the public trust,” said U.S. Attorney Vélez. “I am hopeful that today’s pleas bring a measure of justice and closure to the victim’s family and the entire community.” Rodriguez Vega and Rivera Nazario each face a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a fine of $250,000 for their convictions for violating Irizarry Perez’s civil rights. Colon Martinez faces a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine for each conviction of making a false statement to the FBI and making a false declaration to the federal grand jury. Negron Vazquez faces a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine for his conviction of making a false statement to the FBI. Torres Quinones faces a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a fine of $250,000 for his conviction for obstruction of justice by providing misleading information to the local prosecutor. Rodriguez Caraballo faces a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine for his conviction for making a false declaration to the federal grand jury. This case was investigated by the San Juan Division of the FBI and is being prosecuted by Senior Litigation Counsel Gerard Hogan and Trial Attorneys Shan Patel and Olimpia E. Michel from the Civil Rights Division of the U.S. Department of Justice and Assistant U.S. Attorney Jose A. Contreras from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Puerto Rico.
corruption FRESNO, CA—Correctional officer Ramon Cano, 28, of Bakersfield, pleaded guilty today to a conspiracy to provide and possess contraband in prison, United States Attorney Benjamin B. Wagner announced. According to court documents, between November 2013 and February 27, 2014, while working at the Taft Federal Correctional Institution, Cano conspired with inmate Gerardo Alvarez-Montanez, 32, to smuggle cellphones, cash, alcohol and controlled substances into the federal prison in return for cash. Cano is scheduled to be sentenced by United States District Judge Anthony W. Ishii on December 15, 2014. On June 23, 2014, Montanez pleaded guilty to a conspiracy to provide and possess contraband in prison. He is scheduled to be sentenced on September 15, 2014. Both defendants face a maximum statutory penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. The actual sentences, however, will be determined at the discretion of the court after consideration of any applicable statutory factors and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, which take into account a number of variables. This case is the product of an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the U.S. Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General. Assistant United States Attorney Brian K. Delaney is prosecuting the case.
corruption WASHINGTON—Sixteen former Puerto Rico police officers have pleaded guilty for their roles in a criminal organization run out of the police department. The officers used their affiliation with law enforcement to commit robbery and extortion, to manipulate court records in exchange for bribes, and to sell illegal narcotics. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodríguez-Vélez of the District of Puerto Rico and Special Agent in Charge Carlos Cases of the FBI’s San Juan Division made the announcement. “These 16 police officers were charged with fighting crime, protecting lives and property, and improving the quality of life in Puerto Rico,” said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. “Instead, they used their badges and guns to do the opposite, committing crimes, endangering lives, and stealing property under the veil of police authority. This prosecution demonstrates the Justice Department’s commitment to holding all criminals accountable—including those who wear a badge. We will use every tool at our disposal, including the RICO laws, to rid our communities of corruption.” The following 13 defendants pleaded guilty to conspiracy to violate the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) Act: Osvaldo Vazquez-Ruiz, 38; Orlando Sierra-Pereira, 37; Danny Nieves-Rivera, 35; Roberto Ortiz-Cintron, 35; Yovanny Crespo-Candelaria, 34; Jose Sanchez-Santiago, 32; Miguel Perez-Rivera, 35; Nadab Arroyo-Rosa, 33; Jose Flores-Villalongo, 52; Luis Suarez-Sanchez, 36; Eduardo Montañez-Perez, 29; Carlos Laureano-Cruz, 40; and Carlos Candelario-Santiago, 47. Three defendants, Ruben Casiano-Pietri, 36, Christian Valles-Collazo, 28, and Ricardo Rivera Rodriguez, 39, pleaded guilty to robbery and extortion charges. Several of the defendants also pleaded guilty to firearms charges in connection with the use of their police-issued firearms in furtherance of their crimes. At the time of their criminal conduct, Flores-Villalongo and Candelario-Santiago were sergeants with the Police of Puerto Rico (POPR), and the other defendants were police officers. Sentencing hearings are scheduled for December 2014. According to court documents, over the course of the conspiracy, the officers worked together to conduct traffic stops and enter the homes of suspected criminals to steal money, property and drugs for their own personal enrichment. They planted evidence to make false arrests, and then extorted money from their victims in exchange for their release from custody. Additionally, in exchange for bribe payments, the officers gave false testimony, manipulated court records and failed to appear in court when required so that criminal cases would be wrongfully dismissed. The officers also sold and distributed wholesale quantities of narcotics. As just a few examples of their criminal conduct, in April 2012, defendants Vazquez-Ruiz and Sierra-Pereira conducted a traffic stop in their capacity as police officers and stole approximately $22,000 they believed to be illegal drug proceeds. Vazquez-Ruiz later attempted to extort approximately $8,000 from an individual believed to be a drug dealer’s accomplice in exchange for promising to release a prisoner. Further, in November 2012, defendants Sierra-Pereira, Nieves-Rivera, Ortiz-Cintron and Valles-Collazo illegally entered an apartment and stole approximately $30,000, which they believed were illegal lottery proceeds. The defendants frequently shared with one another the proceeds they illegally obtained, and used their power, authority and official positions as police officers to promote and protect their illegal activity. Among other things, the defendants used POPR firearms, badges, patrol cars, tools, uniforms and other equipment to commit the crimes, and then concealed their illegal activity with fraudulently obtained court documents and falsified POPR paperwork that made it appear they were engaged in legitimate police work. The case was investigated by the FBI’s San Juan Division, and prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Brian K. Kidd, Emily Rae Woods and Menaka Kalaskar of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Mariana E. Bauzá of the District of Puerto Rico.
corruption Preet Bharara, United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, announced today that JOHN L. MONTANEZ, a police officer with the New York City Police Department (“NYPD”), pleaded guilty in Manhattan federal court to credit card fraud and identity theft offenses. MONTANEZ, who was arrested late May 2014, entered his plea today before U.S. District Judge Katherine Polk Failla. Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said: “John Montanez summed it up well when he told a cooperating witness ‘I am not the cop you think I am.’ In fact, he’s a criminal who dishonored himself, the NYPD and the public he serves, and by doing so, made every other honest police officer’s job that much harder. I want to thank the Bronx District Attorney’s Office, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the NYPD Internal Affairs Bureau for working with my office to investigate, and snuff out, this conduct.” According to the Complaint, Information, and today’s plea proceeding: In 2011, an individual, who subsequently agreed to cooperate with law enforcement, and who is referred to in the case as the “CW,” informed MONTANEZ that the CW had a suspended and/or revoked driver’s license. In response, MONTANEZ offered to provide the CW with the name and driver’s license number of a real person—so that if the CW were stopped by law enforcement, the CW could pretend to be someone else—in return for items that the CW would purchase for MONTANEZ with fraudulently obtained or stolen credit cards. After that, in return for the CW purchasing merchandise for MONTANEZ, and providing to MONTANEZ credit card/debit card numbers that MONTANEZ understood were stolen or fraudulently obtained, MONTANEZ provided to the CW multiple names, dates of birth, and driver’s license identification numbers of other people. One such person, referred to in the Complaint as “Victim-1,” was a fellow police officer with the NYPD, serving in the same precinct as MONTANEZ. The CW was arrested in June 2013 and later began recording meetings with MONTANEZ in connection with the CW’s cooperation with law enforcement. During these meetings, MONTANEZ offered to provide additional identities to the CW in return for merchandise purchased with credit/debit cards that MONTANEZ believed the CW had stolen or fraudulently obtained. In one recorded meeting, MONTANEZ observed to the CW: “I am not the cop you think I am. I am a piece of s***.” * * * MONTANEZ, 28, of the Bronx, New York, pleaded guilty to one count of access device fraud and one count of aggravated identity theft. He faces a maximum sentence of 17 years in prison, with a mandatory minimum term of two years. The maximum potential sentence in this case is prescribed by Congress and is provided here for informational purposes only, as any sentencing of the defendant will be determined by the judge. MONTANEZ is scheduled to be sentenced by Judge Failla on January 14, 2015. Mr. Bharara thanked the Bronx County District Attorney’s Office, who worked with the CW to develop evidence implicating MONTANEZ and assisted in the prosecution. Mr. Bharara also praised the investigative work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the NYPD Internal Affairs Bureau. The case is being handled by the Office’s Public Corruption Unit. Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel C. Richenthal is in charge of the prosecution.  Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption ALBANY, NY—CHARLES E. FULLER, age 46, of Corinth, New York, pled guilty today in Albany before Chief United States District Court Judge Gary L. Sharpe to one count of attempting to aid and abet the possession with intent to distribute a controlled substance, announced United States Attorney Richard S. Hartunian and Andrew W. Vale, Special Agent-in- Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Albany Division. Fuller faces at least five years of imprisonment and up to forty years of imprisonment. During the plea hearing, Fuller admitted that in February of 2014, while he was employed as a Saratoga County Deputy Sheriff, he accepted a total of $5,000 from a confidential source supervised by the Federal Bureau of Investigation as payment for transporting the confidential source while the source was carrying what Fuller believed to be cocaine. The source actually had imitation cocaine. The defendant made two trips from Albany to Warren County: one on February 19, 2014 and one on February 27, 2014. During the first trip, the defendant drove the source with what he believed to be 250 grams of cocaine in return for $1,000, and during the second trip, the defendant transported the source with what he believed to be one kilogram of cocaine in return for $4,000. Sentencing is scheduled for December 18, 2014, at 1:00 p.m. in Albany, New York. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Daniel Hanlon.
corruption SAN DIEGO—Former superintendent of the San Ysidro School District Manuel Paul pled guilty today in federal court to deprivation of benefits for political contributions. Paul worked in the San Ysidro School District (“SYSD”) for 38 years as a teacher, principal, and superintendent, a post he held from 2007 until his resignation in 2013. According to court documents, Paul had several duties as superintendent, including recommending contractors for consideration and approval by the SYSD Governing Board for SYSD construction projects. Paul admitted in his plea agreement to requesting that a contractor (“Contractor A”) make $3,600 in campaign contributions to three political candidates for the 2010 Board election, identified in the plea agreement as Candidates A, B, and C. Paul admitted that he made clear that Contractor A’s inclusion on the list of potential contractors for future District building projects was contingent on Contractor A making the payment. According to the plea agreement, shortly thereafter—and only two months before the 2010 Board election—Paul accepted $2,500 in cash from Contractor A in the parking lot of a Chula Vista restaurant. Paul admitted that he then contributed a portion of the $2,500 to the political campaigns of Candidates A, B, and C by purchasing campaign signs from a print shop in Tijuana. According to court documents, Candidates A, B, and C won the three open seats. Charging documents allege that almost two years later, in July 2012, Paul provided Candidates A, B, and C a receipt for the purchase of $1,401 in campaign signs for the 2010 election. The receipt lists a third party as the purchaser of the signs. Simultaneous with his guilty plea, Paul also entered into a stipulation with California’s Fair Political Practices Commission, in which he admitted to receiving a gift in excess of the annual gift limit by accepting the $2,500 from Contractor A. As part of his settlement with the FPPC, Paul agreed to pay a $5,000 fine. The stipulation will be considered by the FPPC at its October hearing. United States Attorney Laura E. Duffy stressed that her office will continue to pursue vigorously any criminal activity that seeks to introduce illegal money into campaigns. “Today’s guilty plea is a stark reminder that illegal money in our elections—regardless of the amount—is a threat to our democratic form of government and will be treated as such by our office. All citizens of our district have the right to elections free from dollars obtained through coercion.” FBI Special Agent in Charge, Daphne Hearn, commented, “We demand the best from our public servants and expect them to deal honestly and fairly when conducting the public’s business. Mr. Paul did not do that, and will now be held accountable for his actions.” The FBI encourages the public to report allegations of public corruption to the FBI public corruption hotline at telephone number (877) NO—BRIBE (662-7423). United States Magistrate Judge William V. Gallo ordered Paul to appear on November 18, 2014, for sentencing. DEFENDANT—(CASE NO. 14CR2351-H) Manuel Paul Age: 63 Bonita, CA SUMMARY OF CHARGE Deprivation of Benefit for Political Contribution—Title 18, U.S.C., Section 601 Maximum penalty: one year imprisonment and $100,000 fine AGENCY Federal Bureau of Investigation
corruption ALBUQUERQUE—U.S. Attorney Damon P. Martinez and Special Agent Carol K.O. Lee of the FBI’s Albuquerque Division announced Rio Arriba County Sheriff Thomas R. Rodella and his son, Thomas R. Rodella, Jr., were arrested this morning by the FBI on a federal indictment charging them with civil rights, firearms and falsification of documents charges. Sheriff Rodella, 52, and Rodella, Jr., 26, both residents of Española, N.M., are charged in a five-count indictment that was filed under seal on Aug. 12, 2014, and unsealed earlier today following their arrests. The two men made their initial appearances in federal court in Albuquerque, N.M., earlier this morning. The indictment against Sheriff Rodella and Rodella, Jr., arise out of a March 11, 2014 incident occurring in Rio Arriba County, N.M., during which the two men allegedly engaged in the high-speed pursuit and unreasonable seizure of a victim identified as “M.T.” Count 1 of the Indictment charges Sheriff Rodella and Rodella, Jr., with participating in a conspiracy to violate the victim’s civil rights by subjecting him to an unreasonable seizure while acting under color of law. Count 2 charges the two men with subjecting the victim to an unreasonable seizure while acting under color of law. It further alleges that the offense against the victim involved the use of a dangerous weapon and resulted in bodily injury to the victim. Count 3 charges Sheriff Rodella with brandishing a firearm during a crime of violence. Counts 4 and 5 charge Sheriff Rodella and Rodella, Jr., respectively, with making false statements in law enforcement reports regarding the events giving rise to charges in Counts 1 and 2 of the indictment. According to the indictment, on March 11, 2014, Sheriff Rodella and Rodella, Jr., who were in the Sheriff’s personal vehicle, allegedly engaged in a high-speed pursuit of the victim and used the Sheriff’s vehicle to block the victim’s vehicle on a dead-end lane. It alleges that Sheriff Rodella, who was not in uniform, jumped out of his vehicle with firearm in hand, entered the victim’s vehicle, and assaulted the victim with the firearm. Rodella, Jr., allegedly dragged the victim out of his vehicle and identified the victim’s alleged assailant as the Sheriff. In response to the victim’s request to see his badge, Sheriff Rodella allegedly pulled the victim’s head up by his hair and slammed his badge into the victim’s face. The indictment alleges that Sheriff Rodella instructed his deputies to arrest the victim and detain him at the Rio Arriba County Detention Center, and that the Sheriff and Rodella, Jr., falsely represented to the deputies that the victim had attempted to injure the Sheriff. According to the indictment, on March 12, 2014, the Sheriff and Rodella, Jr., each made false statements in law enforcement reports regarding the events underlying the victim’s arrest. Sheriff Rodella allegedly falsely wrote that the victim had driven his vehicle at a high rate of speed and tried to run him over. Rodella, Jr., allegedly falsely wrote that the victim’s vehicle accelerated towards the Sheriff and almost hit the Sheriff. “A vast majority of law enforcement officers work courageously every day to make our communities safe,” said U.S. Attorney Damon P. Martinez. “Because those in uniform deserve our respect and support, it is vitally important to prosecute officers who violate their oaths of office and the public trust placed in them. The Department of Justice is committed to holding law enforcement officers accountable when they violate their sworn duty to uphold the Constitution.” “As the lead agency for enforcing federal civil rights laws, the FBI wants to make it clear no one is above the law, regardless of what uniform you wear or rank you hold. Those charged with upholding the law must and will be held accountable,” said FBI Special Agent in Charge Carol K.O. Lee. “Let today’s arrests serve notice to those few out there who would tarnish their badge by violating the public trust: the FBI will thoroughly investigate each and every allegation, and the U.S. Attorney’s Office will prosecute you to the fullest extent of the law. I want to thank the FBI Special Agents and support staff for their work during this investigation, as well as the U.S. Attorney’s Office for their assistance in this case.” If convicted on Counts 1 and 2, the conspiracy and civil rights charges, Sheriff Rodella and Rodella, Jr., each face a statutory maximum penalty of ten years in prison. Each man each faces a statutory maximum penalty of 20 years if convicted on Counts 4 and 5, the falsification of documents charge. If convicted on Count 3, the firearms charge, Sheriff Rodella faces a mandatory seven years in prison to be served consecutive to any sentence imposed on the other charges. This case was investigated by the Albuquerque and Santa Fe offices of the FBI and is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Tara C. Neda. The charges set forth in the indictment are merely accusations and the defendants are presumed innocent unless proven guilty.
corruption WASHINGTON—A Puerto Rico businessman pleaded guilty today to bribing Puerto Rico Superior Court Judge Manuel Acevedo-Hernandez, who presided over the businessman’s vehicular homicide trial and acquitted him of all charges. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodríguez-Vélez of the District of Puerto Rico and Special Agent in Charge Carlos Cases of the FBI’s San Juan Division made the announcement. According to court documents, Lutgardo Acevedo-Lopez, 39, was a certified public accountant in Aguadilla, Puerto Rico. On June 30, 2012, a car driven by Acevedo-Lopez collided with another car, resulting in the death of the other car’s driver. Acevedo-Lopez was charged with criminal vehicular homicide in connection with the incident. Acevedo-Hernandez, a supervisory superior court judge in the Aguadilla judicial region of Puerto Rico, presided over the case and acquitted Acevedo-Lopez of all charges. In his plea agreement, Acevedo-Lopez admitted that he bribed Acevedo-Hernandez to use his official position as a judge for Acevedo-Lopez’s benefit. Specifically, Acevedo-Lopez admitted that he used an intermediary to bribe Acevedo-Hernandez by paying taxes owed by Acevedo-Hernandez, paying for the construction of a garage for Acevedo-Hernandez, and providing Acevedo-Hernandez with a motorcycle, clothing and accessories, including cufflinks and a watch. In exchange, Acevedo-Hernandez acquitted Acevedo-Lopez of all charges. Acevedo-Lopez is scheduled to be sentenced on Dec. 8, 2014 before Chief U.S. District Judge Aida M. Delgado-Colón in San Juan, Puerto Rico. Charges remain pending against Acevedo-Hernandez, who was charged with bribery-related offenses in an indictment unsealed on May 28, 2014, in the District of Puerto Rico. The charges contained in an indictment are merely accusations, and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. The case is being investigated by the FBI’s San Juan Division and is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Peter Mason of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Timothy Henwood and Jose Capo of the District of Puerto Rico. Citizens of Puerto Rico who have information about alleged public corruption are encouraged to contact the FBI’s San Juan Division at (787) 754-6000.
corruption NORFOLK, VA—Timothy S. Miller, 58, a co-founder of a Chesapeake, Virginia, government contracting company, pleaded guilty today to providing illegal gratuities to two public officials working for the United States Navy Military Sealift Command. United States Attorney Dana J. Boente of the Eastern District of Virginia; Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division; Special Agent in Charge Robert Craig of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS) Mid-Atlantic Field Office; Special Agent in Charge Susan Triesch of the Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS) Norfolk Field Office; and Special Agent in Charge Royce E. Curtin of the FBI Norfolk Field Office made the announcement today after Miller’s guilty plea was accepted by United States Magistrate Judge Lawrence R. Leonard of the Eastern District of Virginia. According to a statement of facts filed with the plea agreement, in February 2009, Miller, along with his business partner, Dwayne A. Hardman, co-founded a government contracting company that was designed to provide telecommunications support to the Military Sealift Command, which is the leading provider of transportation for the U.S. Navy. At his plea hearing, Miller admitted that he provided illegal gratuities to two public officials for, or because of, favorable official acts. On May 12, 2009, Miller provided $30,000 in cash to Kenny E. Toy, the former Afloat Programs Manager for the Military Sealift Command’s N6 Command, Control, Communication, and Computer Systems Directorate, and Scott B. Miserendino, Sr., a government contractor who worked with Toy at the Military Sealift Command Headquarters. On May 14, 2009, Miller agreed that another $20,000 cash payment be delivered to Toy and Miserendino by Hardman. According to Miller’s statement of facts, Toy exercised substantial influence over the Military Sealift Command contracting process, by creating and executing multi-million dollar budgets, obtaining funding for projects, developing and having access to sensitive information, and requesting that subcontract work be awarded to particular companies. As a result of the $50,000 payment, Miserendino and Toy performed various official acts to assist Miller’s company. Indeed, in 2009, Miller’s company received approximately $2.5 million in business from the Military Sealift Command. As a condition of his plea agreement, Miller has agreed to forfeit $167,000. Miller is scheduled to be sentenced on November 7, 2014. He faces a maximum penalty of two years in prison. Earlier this year, six other individuals pleaded guilty in connection with the bribery scheme. On February 12, 2014, Toy pleaded guilty to bribery, and he was sentenced on July 29, 2014, to 96 months in prison and ordered to forfeit $100,000. On February 18, 2014, Hardman pleaded guilty to bribery, and he was sentenced on July 9, 2014 to 96 months in prison and ordered to forfeit $144,000. On February 19, 2014, Michael P. McPhail pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery, and he was sentenced on August 5, 2014, to 36 months in prison and ordered to forfeit $57,000. On March 5, 2014, Roderic J. Smith pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery, and he was sentenced on June 23, 2014, to 48 months in prison and ordered to forfeit $175,000. On April 4, 2014, Adam C. White pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery, and he was sentenced on July 11, 2014, to 24 months in prison and ordered to forfeit $57,000. On August 12, 2014, Scott B. Miserendino, Sr. pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery and accepting bribes and is scheduled to be sentenced on November 7, 2014. The case was investigated by the FBI, NCIS, and DCIS. The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen W. Haynie of the Eastern District of Virginia and Trial Attorney Emily Rae Woods of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia at http://www.justice.gov/usao/vae. 
corruption CORPUS CHRISTI, TX—Joel Gonzalez, a former U.S. Bureau of Prisons correctional officer, and Lisa Gonzalez, his wife, have admitted to accepting bribes from the family of an inmate in exchange for introducing contraband into the Federal Correctional Institution (FCI) in Three Rivers, announced U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson. Joel Gonzalez admitted that from December 2012 through April 2014, he made arrangements to smuggle tobacco and other contraband into the FCI for an inmate in exchange for cash bribes. His wife assisted him in arranging times and locations for receiving the contraband and bribe payments. She also traveled with him from their residence in Beeville to Laredo in oder to accept the items. Joel Gonzalez would then smuggle the items into the FCI on his body. The investigation further revealed Lisa Gonzalez was employed by the Texas Department of Criminal Justice during the orchestration of this scheme. Sentencing has been set for Nov. 19, 2014. They were permitted to remain on bond pending that hearing. This case was investigated by the U.S. Department of Justice—Office of the Inspector General and the FBI with assistance from Customs and Border Protection, Beeville Police Department and the Texas Rangers. Assistant U.S. Attorney Mark Patterson is prosecuting.
corruption AUGUSTA, GA—Sean Lydell Street, 39, a former Richmond County, Georgia Deputy Sheriff, was sentenced yesterday by U.S. District Court Judge J. Randal Hall to 24 months in prison for stealing personal identification information to be used as part of a fraudulent tax refund scheme. According to the evidence presented during the guilty plea and sentencing hearings, Street worked for the Richmond County Sheriff’s Office from 2007 through 2012. During the last part of 2011 and the first part of 2012, Street used the personal identification information of over 100 individuals, which he obtained through his work as a law enforcement officer, to create a list containing the name, birthdate, and social security number of each person. Street then passed this list to an acquaintance knowing that the information would be used to file fraudulent tax returns with the United States Internal Revenue Service. In exchange, Street hoped to gain at least $1,000.00 per stolen identity. In total, individuals used the information from Street’s list to file 76 bogus tax returns which claimed $414,826.00 in false refunds. The IRS paid a total of $76,424.00 in refunds prior to the discovery of the fraud. United States Attorney Edward J. Tarver said, “Aggravated identity theft and stolen identity tax refund fraud are serious crimes that have serious consequences. Mr. Street is now walking a different beat on the way to federal prison.” “Mr. Street exploited his position as a law enforcement officer for his own personal financial gain which came at the expense of the community he was entrusted to serve,” stated Special Agent in Charge, IRS Criminal Investigation Veronica F. Hyman-Pillot. “This sentence is a message to others that there are consequences to stealing and using other individual’s personal identifying information.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated, “Identity theft in furtherance of fraudulent tax returns is a significant and growing crime problem that victimizes not only those individuals but also the taxpayer. The FBI will continue to do its part in combating this trend and ensuring that those individuals engaged in such criminal activities are held accountable for their actions.” IRS-CI Special Agent Jeffrey Pippin Hale, FBI Special Agent Paul Kubala, and Deputies from the Richmond County Sheriff’s Office conducted the investigation which led to the information and plea. Assistant United States Attorney C. Troy Clark prosecuted the case on behalf of the United States. For additional information, please contact First Assistant United States Attorney James D. Durham at (912) 201-2547.
corruption Scott B. Miserendino, Sr., 55, a former contractor for the United States Navy Military Sealift Command, pleaded guilty today to accepting bribes and conspiring to commit bribery. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Dana J. Boente of the Eastern District of Virginia, Special Agent in Charge Robert Craig of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS) Mid-Atlantic Field Office, Special Agent in Charge Susan Triesch of the Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS) Norfolk Field Office, andSpecial Agent in Charge Royce E. Curtin of the FBI Norfolk Field Office made the announcement today after Miserendino entered his guilty plea before U.S. Magistrate Judge Douglas E. Miller of the Eastern District of Virginia. According to a statement of facts filed with the plea agreement, Miserendino was a government contractor at the Military Sealift Command, which is the leading provider of transportation for the U.S. Navy. In that position, Miserendino worked closely with Kenny E. Toy, the former Afloat Programs Manager for the N6 Command, Control, Communication, and Computer Systems Directorate. In approximately November 2004, Miserendino and Toy initiated an extensive bribery scheme that spanned five years, involved multiple coconspirators, including two companies, and resulted in Miserendino and Toy receiving more than $265,000 in cash bribes, among other things of value, in exchange for official assistance. At his plea hearing, Miserendino admitted that he solicited and accepted regular cash bribes, as well as other things of value, from two Chesapeake, Virginia contracting companies, referred to as Company A and Company B in court documents, in exchange for providing favorable treatment to those companies in connection with U.S. government contract work. More specifically, Miserendino admitted that he accepted $3,000 in cash bribes per month from various employees at Company A, including co-conspirators Dwayne A. Hardman, Roderic J. Smith, Michael P. McPhail, and Adam C. White. Miserendino also admitted that he, along with Toy, accepted a cash bribe payment of $50,000 in May 2009, from Company B’s founders, Hardman and Timothy S. Miller. In addition to the more than $265,000 in cash bribes, Miserendino also admitted that he and Toy received other things of value, including flat screen televisions, laptop computers, a vacation rental in Nags Head, North Carolina, a football helmet signed by Troy Aikman, and softball bats. According to plea documents, in exchange for the bribes, Miserendino and Toy performed various official acts to assist Company A and Company B. Indeed, during the conspiracy, Company A received approximately $3 million in business from the Military Sealift Commandand Company B received approximately $2.5 million in business. As part of his guilty plea, Miserendino also admitted to engaging in a scheme to conceal his criminal activity, which involved Miserendino arranging for more than $85,000 to be paid to one of his co-conspirators, Hardman, in an attempt to prevent Hardman from reporting the bribery scheme to law enforcement authorities. Miserendino is scheduled to be sentenced on November 7, 2014. Earlier this year, five other individuals pleaded guilty in connection with the bribery scheme. On Feb. 12, 2014, Toy pleaded guilty to bribery, and he was sentenced on July 29, 2014, to 96 months in prison and ordered to forfeit $100,000. On Feb. 18, 2014, Hardman, the co-founder of Company A and Company B, pleaded guilty to bribing Toy and Miserendino, and he was sentenced on July 9, 2014, to 96 months in prison and ordered to forfeit $144,000. On Feb. 19, 2014, Michael P. McPhail pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery, and he was sentenced on Aug. 5, 2014, to 36 months in prison and ordered to forfeit $57,000. On March 5, 2014, Smith, the co-founder and former president of Company A, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery, and he was sentenced on June 23, 2014, to 48 months in prison and ordered to forfeit $175,000. On April 4, 2014, White, a former vice president of Company A, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery, and he was sentenced on July 11, 2014, to 24 months in prison and ordered to forfeit $57,000. The remaining defendant, Timothy S. Miller, a businessman who sought contracting business from the Military Sealift Command, is charged with one count of conspiracy to commit bribery and two counts of bribery. Miller’s t rial is scheduled for Sept. 30, 2014, before Chief Judge Smith. The case was investigated by the FBI, NCIS, and DCIS. The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorney Emily Rae Woods of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen W. Haynie of the Eastern District of Virginia.
corruption WHEELING, WV—A former supervisor with the state Division of Highways admitted today that he lied to a Federal agent. United States Attorney William J. Ihlenfeld, II, announced that EDWARD MATTHEW TUTTLE, 38 years old, of Buckhannon, West Virginia, entered a guilty plea this morning to the felony offense of “Making a False Statement to a Federal Agent.” TUTTLE admitted that he lied to an F.B.I. agent who questioned him as part of an ongoing Federal investigation into the Equipment Division of the West Virginia Division of Highways. TUTTLE formerly served as the Highway Administrator for the WVDOH in Upshur County, and as a supervisor with the Equipment Division. U.S. Magistrate Judge James E. Seibert accepted the plea today in Wheeling. Testimony offered at the plea hearing revealed that complaints made by citizens to a public corruption hotline were very beneficial to investigators and led them to obtain a Federal search warrant for the WVDOH’s Equipment Division. TUTTLE now faces up to five years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000. Under the Federal Sentencing Guidelines the actual sentence imposed will be based upon the seriousness of the offense and the Defendant’s prior criminal history, if any. This case is being prosecuted by U.S. Attorney Ihlenfeld and Assistant United States Attorney John C. Parr and was investigated by the U.S. Attorney’s Public Corruption Unit. Agents and officers from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the West Virginia State Police, and the State Commission on Special Investigations are leading the inquiry. Citizens who wish to report public corruption in their community are encouraged to call the West Virginia Public Corruption Hotline at 855-WVA-FEDS or to send an e-mail to wvafeds@usdoj.gov.
corruption CHICAGO—A former chief executive officer of Chicago’s first red light camera vendor, Redflex Traffic Systems, Inc., and the company’s customer liaison with the city, were indicted today on federal corruption charges together with a retired city official who managed the red light camera program for nearly a decade, after he alone was charged initially in May. A federal grand jury returned a 23-count indictment alleging that Redflex officials, including KAREN FINLEY, its former CEO, provided the retired city official, JOHN BILLS, with approximately $570,000 cash and other personal benefits in exchange for Bills’ providing inside information and assisting Redflex in obtaining, keeping, and expanding its Chicago contracts that grew to $124 million. Finley and other officials of Phoenix-based Redflex arranged to funnel the cash and benefits to Bills through his friend, MARTIN O’MALLEY, by hiring O’Malley as an independent contractor who passed much of his $2 million compensation on to Bills, the indictment alleges. Finley, 54, of Cave Creek, Ariz., who was Redflex’s chief executive from late 2005 through February 2013 and its vice president of operations from 2001 until she became CEO, was charged with nine counts of mail fraud, three counts of wire fraud, three counts of federal program bribery, and one count of conspiracy to commit federal program bribery. O’Malley, 73, of south suburban Worth, who was an independent contractor for Redflex between 2003 and 2012, was charged with one count of conspiracy to commit federal program bribery. Bills, 53, of Chicago, who was arrested in May on a criminal complaint and released on his own recognizance, was indicted on nine counts of mail fraud, three counts of wire fraud, three counts of federal program bribery, three counts of filing a false federal income tax return, and one count each of extortion and conspiracy to commit federal program bribery. A city employee for 32 years, Bills served as a member of the red light camera contract evaluation committee and retired as managing deputy commissioner of the city’s transportation department on June 30, 2011. All three will be arraigned on a date yet to be determined in U.S. District Court in Chicago. The indictment also seeks forfeiture from all three defendants of approximately $613,400 as well as the proceeds from the sale of a condominium in Gilbert, Ariz. Between late 2002 and late 2012, Bills and Finley allegedly schemed to defraud the city of money and Bills’ honest services by providing Bills with cash, checks, and other personal benefits directly and indirectly, including meals, hotel stays, rental cars, and golf outings. In May 2008, O’Malley purchased the condominium for Bills, which Bills visited nearly two dozen times with friends and family until the fall of 2012. “When public officials peddle influence for profit, the consequences are severe, and when corporate executives enable that corruption, the same rule applies. We will attack alleged public corruption from every angle,” said Zachary T. Fardon, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois. “Rooting out public corruption remains one of the FBI’s highest priorities,” said Robert J. Holley, Special Agent-in-Charge of the Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. “Today’s indictment underscores our commitment to work in a collaborative effort to promote honest and ethical government at all levels and to prosecute those who allegedly violated the public’s trust,” he added. “IRS Criminal Investigation ensures that all Americans, including public officials, are held to the same standard and that everyone pays their fair share of taxes,” said James C. Lee, Special Agent-in-Charge of the Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation Division in Chicago. “The alleged confluence of corrupt local officials and corrupt corporate officers demands a counterweight of local and federal agencies working to redeem the frayed confidence of the public,” said Joseph Ferguson Inspector General for the City of Chicago. “The Office of Inspector General is therefore grateful for the continuing leadership, dedication and collaboration of our federal partners in this matter.” The investigation is continuing, the officials said. According to the indictment and the complaint affidavit against Bills, in October 2003, the city awarded a contract to Redflex for the installation, maintenance and operation of the city’s first Digital Automated Red Light Enforcement Program (DARLEP), which used cameras to automatically record and ticket drivers who ran red lights. Between 2004 and 2008, the city paid Redflex approximately $25 million under this contract, and Redflex installed and maintained more than 100 red light cameras in Chicago intersections, and assisted in reviewing and processing violations. Bills, then assistant transportation commissioner, was a voting member of the city’s request for proposal (RFP) evaluation committee that recommended awarding the contract to Redflex after a one-month trial run of competing systems by Redflex and another finalist. In February 2008, the city awarded a new, non-competitive contract to Redflex to operate and maintain the previously installed camera systems, and paid Redflex approximately $33 million under that contract. Also in February 2008, following the competitive RFP process, the city awarded a new DARLEP contract to Redflex that was similar to the first. Bills was an advisory member of this RFP evaluation committee. The city paid Redflex approximately $66 million under this contract, resulting in the installation of nearly 250 additional red light cameras. By 2010, Chicago had the largest red light camera program in the United States, representing approximately 20 percent of the total camera systems that Redflex, a subsidiary of Australian-based Redflex Holdings Ltd., operated nationwide. According to the indictment, Individual A, Redflex’s former vice president of sales and marketing, made a presentation to Bills regarding Redflex’s red light cameras in late 2002. Shortly after a Jan. 3, 2003, pre-bid meeting that Individual A attended with other vendors, Bills asked Individual A to get him a hotel room in Los Angeles. Individual A paid for the room and sought and received reimbursement from Redflex. In February 2003, after Redflex and a competitor were selected for a pilot phase, Finley, Individual A, and others from Redflex met Bills at the John Hancock Center and Bills provided information in an effort to give Redflex an advantage over its competitor, the charges allege. Before the pilot phase, Bills recommended that Redflex hire Company A as a subcontractor. In May 2003, before the city contract was awarded, Bills, Individual A and, at times, Individual B, who was then Redflex’s CEO, allegedly strategized to ensure a favorable result for Redflex. On May 27, 2003, the evaluation committee and city transportation commissioner recommended that Redflex be awarded the DARLEP contract, effective in October 2003. At a celebratory dinner in June 2003 in Los Angeles, Bills allegedly told Individual A words to the effect of, “It’s time to make good,” which Individual A understood to mean that Bills wanted and expected to be paid for helping Redflex win and maintain the Chicago contract. Bills allegedly discussed how much money he wanted based on the size of the contract, and suggested to Individual A alternative ways to funnel benefits to him, including paying him through the newly created Chicago customer liaison position. Individual A relayed Bills’ demand to Finley and Individual B. In May 2003, Finley allegedly directed placing an advertisement in a Chicago newspaper for an account manager for Redflex’s Chicago contract, and Bills allegedly told O’Malley to look for and respond to the ad. O’Malley interviewed with Finley and Individual B and was hired in the summer of 2003. Bills allegedly indicated to O’Malley that he was working with Redflex on O’Malley’s employment contract and that O’Malley would give him a portion of the commissions that O’Malley received. The indictment alleges that from 2003 through November 2012, O’Malley and Bills used several different methods, at Bills’ direction, to transfer funds to Bills, including: from 2004 through 2012, O’Malley withdrew more than $600,000 in cash and O’Malley gave Bills approximately $570,000 in cash; from 2008 to 2010, O’Malley wrote Bills checks totaling approximately $17,900, which Bills used to pay personal debts and expenses; and from 2007 to 2011, O’Malley wrote checks totaling approximately $5,500 to a political organization. Also at Bills’ request, the indictment alleges that Redflex agents, including Individual A and O’Malley, paid for at least $20,000 worth of personal expenses for Bills, including hotels rooms, meals, golf games, and computers, with the approval of Finley and Individual B, and expensed these purchases through Redflex from 2003 through 2011. Neither Finley nor Bills reported the flow of benefits on financial disclosure or economic interest forms they each submitted in connection with the contracts and Bill’s employment, the charges allege. Before Bills retired, he allegedly made it known to Individual A and other Redflex employees that he wanted a job with Redflex. Instead, Finley, Individual A and others arranged for Bills to get a job with Nonprofit Corporation A, and Redflex increased its monthly funding to Nonprofit Corporation A to help pay for Bills’ salary. That job lasted through the early spring of 2012. The tax charges against Bills allege that he failed to report the income he received from O’Malley on his federal income tax returns for 2008, 2009 and 2011. Each count of mail and wire fraud and extortion carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison; federal program bribery carries a maximum of 10 years in prison; and conspiracy carries a maximum of five years in prison, and each count carries a $250,000 maximum fine, while the mail and wire fraud counts also carry an alternate maximum fine of twice the gain, or twice the loss, whichever is greater. The tax counts against Bills each carry a maximum of three years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Defendants convicted of tax offenses must pay the costs of prosecution and remain civilly liable for any back taxes, as well as a potential civil fraud penalty of up to 75 percent of the underpayment plus interest. Restitution is mandatory. If convicted, the court must impose a reasonable sentence under federal sentencing statutes and the advisory United States Sentencing Guidelines. The public is reminded that an indictment contains only charges and is not evidence of guilt. The defendants are presumed innocent and are entitled to a fair trial at which the government has the burden of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. The government is being represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Carrie Hamilton and Laurie Barsella.
corruption COLUMBUS, OH—Former Columbus Police Officer Steven Edward Dean, 49, of Columbus, was sentenced in U.S. District Court to 30 months in prison for misappropriating and selling heavy equipment and other property the Columbus Division of Police received through a Department of Defense surplus program. Carter M. Stewart, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Ohio; Kevin Cornelius, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI); Brian Reihms, Special Agent in Charge, Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS); and Columbus Police Chief Kim Jacobs announced the sentence handed down today by U.S. District Judge Michael H. Watson. According to court documents, an investigation by the Columbus Division of Police, the FBI and DCIS concluded that between October 1, 2005 and June 1, 2012, Dean diverted property with a fair market value of $251,570.94 the police department had received from the Defense Reutilization Marketing Office (DRMO) program. The embezzled items included $133,554.59 of heavy equipment, construction equipment, and vehicles; restaurant equipment; $94,163.25 of materials sold for scrap; and $16,353.15 worth of items, including diesel generators, sold to private persons. This conclusion was based on records obtained from the U.S. Department of Defense DRMO program, the state of Ohio offices involved with the DRMO program, scrapyard receipts, Craigslist online point-of-sale website records, restaurant supply records of sold equipment, and by viewing the items of property themselves. “This is a major theft and embezzlement case involving a uniformed police officer stealing from his own department and involving property which should have otherwise been used to assist law enforcement, and all the equipment and vehicles were originally purchased with taxpayer dollars,” Assistant U.S. Attorneys Doug Squires and Deborah Solove told the court prior to sentencing. “Today’s sentencing demonstrates the Defense Criminal Investigative Service’s ongoing commitment to combating fraud and corruption that impacts the Department of Defense’s vital programs and operations,” said Brian Reihms, Special Agent in Charge, Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS), “DCIS, with our partner agencies, will continue to work tirelessly to investigate fraud involving the DoD’s DRMO Law Enforcement Support Office which transfers excess property to law enforcement organizations across the United States.” Dean pleaded guilty in February to one count of embezzlement from a program receiving federal funds and one count of theft of public property. Under terms of the plea agreement, Dean will forfeit $251,570.94 less the value of the recovered equipment. Dean was also sentenced to three years of supervised released following inprisonment. U.S. Attorney Stewart commended the investigation by DCIS, the FBI, and CPD, as well as Assistant U.S. Attorneys Doug Squires and Deborah Solove, who prosecuted the case.
corruption SAN DIEGO—A federal grand jury issued a new indictment this morning against Mexican businessman Jose Susumo Azano Matsura and alleged co-conspirators Ravneet Singh, his Washington, D.C.-based campaign-services company ElectionMall Inc. and San Diego lobbyist Marco Polo Cortes, detailing 26 counts of various campaign-finance, falsification of records, bribery, and gun charges. Besides adding numerous charges, the superseding indictment also brings the defendants into a single case and alleges they were part of a broader conspiracy to illegally and surreptitiously funnel Azano’s money into various political campaigns and committees, including those of three San Diego mayoral candidates and a political party committee supporting federal candidates. The indictment details approximately $600,000 in such illegal donations. According to federal law, it is illegal for a foreign national to donate to political campaigns in the U.S. The most-recent indictment lists 20 instances in which various defendants allegedly falsified campaign finance records with the San Diego City Clerk, the Federal Election Commission, or the California Secretary of State. Specifically, the indictment lists multiple occasions in which the defendants failed to identify Azano as the true source of campaign donations or concealed the donation altogether. The new indictment also charges Singh, a social media consultant, and his corporation, ElectionMall Inc., with a single count of bribery. According to the indictment, Singh offered $1,000 to a federal official in exchange for confidential and classified information between December of 2013 and January of 2014. The superseding indictment also charges that Azano was an alien in possession of a firearm, namely, a black Sig Sauer P225 semi-automatic pistol. Federal law prohibits possession of firearms, ammunition or explosives by an alien who is unlawfully in the United States or who has been admitted to the United States under a nonimmigrant visa. Among other things, the new indictment alleges that members of the conspiracy would survey candidates for various elective offices to determine which ones to support. Azano would seek a private meeting with a candidate and conspirators would then design secret methods of financing that candidate’s campaign. They would use various methods to inject the cash into campaigns—including straw donors and unreported in-kind donations. Azano would also use companies and an independent expenditure committee of his own creation to support favored candidates, the indictment alleges. Singh, his corporation, Cortes and retired San Diego Police Detective Ernesto Encinas were first charged in January of 2014 via complaint. Azano, Singh, ElectionMall and Cortes were first indicted in February of 2014. Ernesto Encinas, a former San Diego police detective and owner of a private security firm, pleaded guilty in March to conspiracy to commit crimes against the United States and filing a false tax return. Marc Allen Chase, a co-owner of a La Jolla luxury car dealership, pleaded guilty in March to eight misdemeanor counts of campaign finance crimes, including conspiracy, aiding and abetting contributions by a foreign national and making a “straw” contribution in connection with a federal campaign. DEFENDANT Case Number: 14cr388MMA Jose Susumo Azano Matsura Age: 48 Coronado, CA Ravneet Singh Age: 41 Washington, D.C. ElectionMall Inc. Washington, D.C. Marco Polo Cortes Age: 44 San Diego, CA SUMMARY OF CHARGES Count 1: Conspiracy to Commit Offenses Against the United States—Title 18, U.S.C., Sec. 371. Maximum Penalties: Up to five years in prison and $250,000 fine All Defendants Count 2: Conspiracy to Commit Offenses Against the United States—Title 18, U.S.C., Sec. 371. Maximum Penalties: Up to five years in prison and $250,000 fine Azano and Cortes only Count 3: Donation and Contribution by a Foreign National Aggregating $25,000 or more—Title 2, U.S.C., Secs. 437g (d) (1) (A) (i) and 441e (A) (1). Maximum Penalties: Up to five years in prison and $250,000 fine All Defendants Count 4: Contribution in the Name of Another Aggregating $25,000 or more—Title 2, U.S.C., Secs. 437g(d) (1) (A) (i) and 441f. Maximum Penalties: Up to five years in prison and $250,000 fine Azano and Cortes only Counts 5-24: Falsification of Records—Title 18, U.S.C., Sec. 1519. Maximum Penalties: Up to 20 years in prison per count and $250,000 fine per count. All defendants charged with one or more counts Count 25: Bribery—Title 18, U.S.C., Sec. 201(b). Maximum Penalties: Up to 15 years in prison and $250,000 fine Singh and ElectionMall Inc. only Count 26: Alien in Possession of a Firearm—Title 18, U.S.C., Sec. 922 (g) (5) (B). Maximum Penalties: Up to 10 years in prison and $250,000 fine Azano only INVESTIGATING AGENCIES Federal Bureau of Investigation Internal Revenue Service San Diego Police Department
corruption The former head of a Cleveland-area anti-poverty agency was charged with accepting more than $23,000 in cash, home renovations and other things of value in exchange for steering work to specific contractors, law enforcement officials said. Jacqueline K. Middleton, 69, of Shaker Heights, was charged in a criminal information with two counts of honest services fraud, one count of bribery in federally funded programs and one count of Hobbs Act Conspiracy. “We will continue to prosecute cases where the public’s trust is violated with bribes and kickbacks,” said Steven M. Dettelbach, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio. “The FBI has the responsibility of protecting the public by aggressively pursuing and bringing to justice those who place the community at risk,” said Stephen D. Anthony, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI’s Cleveland office. “Instead of serving the public, she served herself and violated the trust of those she was supposed to serve.” “As the President and CEO of the CEOGC, Ms. Middleton had the obligation and responsibility to use taxpayer funds to assist low income families of Northern Ohio. Unfortunately she chose to use her position to enrich herself”, said Lamont Pugh III, Special Agent in Charge, U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, Office of Inspector General—Chicago Region. “The OIG and its law enforcement partners are committed to identifying, investigating and working with prosecutorial authorities to hold individuals accountable who choose breech the public’s trust and deprive needy citizens of vital taxpayer dollars.” Middleton served as president and chief executive officer of the Council of Economic Opportunities of Greater Cleveland. The CEOGC was organized with the purpose of serving low-income people of Cuyahoga County and Greater Cleveland. The CEOGC administered several federal, state and local programs designed to address the needs of low-income individuals, including Head Start, the Community Services Block Grant program and the Home Energy Assistance program. From 2008 through around August 7, 2012, Middleton used her official position to enrich herself by soliciting and accepting gifts, payments and other things of value from contractors who did business with CEOGC. These gifts and payments were made in exchange for favorable action from Middleton for the payors and their companies, according to the information. Middleton solicited and accepted gifts, payments and other things of value totaling more than $12,017 from a person identified as Contractor No. 1 and totaling approximately $11,200 from a person identified as Contractor No. 2. The things of value included kickbacks from CEOGC payments, home renovation work and payments to vendors for related supplies on her behalf, according to the information. Middleton provided official favorable action Company No. 1 and Contractor No. 2 as requested and as opportunities arose. That included authorizing CEOGC contracts which retained Contractor No. 2 for consulting services and which retained Company No. 1 for work including parking lot renovations, classroom remodeling and flooring remodeling at various sites and offices administered by CEOGC, according to the information. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Justin J. Roberts, following an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Department of Health and Human Services—Office of Inspector General. If convicted, the defendant’s sentence will be determined by the court after a review of the federal sentencing guidelines and factors unique to the case, including the defendant’s prior criminal record (if any), the defendant’s role in the offense and the characteristics of the violation. A charge is not evidence of guilt. A defendant is entitled to a fair trial in which it will be the government’s burden to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption Preet Bharara, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, announced that attorney ALBERT BALDEO, a former Queens District Leader, was found guilty today in federal court of tampering with witnesses during the investigation of his alleged campaign fraud by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (“FBI”). BALDEO was convicted of seven counts of obstruction of justice in Manhattan federal court after a two-week trial before U.S. District Judge Paul A. Crotty. U.S. Attorney Bharara stated: “The fact that Albert Baldeo lost his election does not excuse his corrupt conduct. With today’s verdict of guilty, an impartial federal jury has found that Baldeo lied and instructed others to lie to law enforcement agents investigating the source of his campaign contributions, and threatened and intimidated others in order to conceal the truth. These practices have no place in our politics or our justice system, and there should be no doubt that this Office will prosecute such conduct while it continues to vigorously investigate and prosecute political corruption in New York City and New York State.” According to the Complaint, Indictment, and Superseding Indictment and evidence presented at trial: In the fall of 2010, BALDEO, then a Queens District Leader of a political party and attorney, participated in a scheme to defraud New York City that involved the funneling of multiple illegal campaign contributions to his ultimately unsuccessful campaign for City Council. On various occasions, BALDEO, and in at least one instance one of BALDEO’s employees, provided money orders or cash to individuals to contribute to the campaign in their own names, even though BALDEO supplied the funds and these individuals did not contribute any of their own money or reimburse him for these donations. As part of this scheme, BALDEO gave each such donor, commonly referred to as a “straw donor,” a campaign contribution card in which he or she wrote his or her name, address, employment information, and the amount of money purportedly donated to the BALDEO campaign. BALDEO instructed the straw donors to sign the contribution cards falsely affirming that the contribution was being made from their personal funds and was not being reimbursed in any manner. The New York City Campaign Finance Board (“CFB”) relied upon the information contained in these fraudulent contribution forms, among other things, in order to determine whether to release public matching campaign funds to BALDEO’s 2010 campaign. Moreover, as part of this scheme, BALDEO instructed several of these straw donors to sign affidavits, at least one of which was actually provided to the CFB, that also falsely asserted that these straw donors’ contributions were made using their own funds. After learning of the FBI’s investigation of this matter, BALDEO obstructed the investigation by repeatedly instructing certain straw donors to provide false information to, or not cooperate with, the FBI agents who were investigating contributions to his campaign. Moreover, in response to BALDEO learning that one straw donor was going to refuse to lie as instructed by BALDEO: (1) a threatening letter was faxed from BALDEO’s office to the office of this straw donor’s attorney; (2) a co-conspirator of BALDEO’s not charged in this matter made false allegations to the New York City Administration for Children’s Services that this straw donor was abusing his grandchild; and (3) BALDEO and the same co-conspirator made at least one complaint each to the New York City Department of Buildings about properties owned by this straw donor or his wife. * * * BALDEO, 54, of Richmond Hill, New York, was convicted of one count of conspiracy to obstruct justice, and six counts of obstruction of justice, each relating to a separate instance of witness tampering. Each count carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison. BALDEO was acquitted of three fraud-related counts relating to approximately $15,000 in claims for city matching funds from the CFB which were never awarded. The maximum potential sentence in this case is prescribed by Congress and is provided here for informational purposes only, as any sentencing of the defendant will be determined by the judge. BALDEO is scheduled to be sentenced by Judge Crotty on December 16, 2014, at 11:00 a.m. United States Attorney Bharara praised the investigative work of the FBI and expressed his appreciation for the assistance of the New York City Campaign Finance Board, the New York City Administration for Children’s Services, and the New York City Department of Buildings in the investigation and prosecution of this matter. This case is being prosecuted by the Office’s Public Corruption Unit. Assistant United States Attorneys Daniel C. Richenthal and Martin S. Bell are in charge of the prosecution. Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption MONTGOMERY, AL—Former Wilcox County Deputy Greg Barge, 45, from Camden, Alabama, was sentenced yesterday for attempting to possess with the intent to distribute cocaine powder, and using a firearm in furtherance of a drug trafficking crime, announced George L. Beck, Jr., United States Attorney for the Middle District of Alabama. After pleading guilty to these charges, District Court Judge Mark E. Fuller sentenced Barge to 90 months in prison, to be followed by three years of supervised release. According to court records, on April 10, 2013, May 7, 2013 and June 26, 2013, Barge transported packages that contained what he believed to be multiple kilograms of cocaine powder from Montgomery, Alabama to Camden, Alabama. The packages actually contained a substance that appeared to be cocaine, but was not cocaine. On each of those dates, Barge obtained the supposed cocaine in Montgomery and transported them to Camden using his law enforcement vehicle, dressed in his deputy uniform, and carrying his police issued firearm. Barge was paid $700 on April 10, 2013 for transporting 2 kilograms of what he believed to be cocaine, and $1200 on May 7, 2013 for transporting 3 kilograms. On June 26, 2013, Barge was arrested in Camden after transporting another 3 kilograms of the fake cocaine from Montgomery to Camden. “Wearing a badge and uniform does not provide immunity from breaking the law,” stated U.S. Attorney George Beck. “Whether a county deputy, city police officer, or federal agent, wrongdoers will be punished. While the majority of law enforcement officers protect and serve our communities honorably, those who violate the public’s trust will be prosecuted.” “The FBI and our law enforcement partners will continue to utilize all resources to investigate those who have taken an oath to serve and protect our communities and use their position as a public servant to shield their criminal activities and violate the trust of those they serve,” stated FBI Special Agent in Charge Robert F. Lasky. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, with assistance from the Alabama Alcoholic Beverage Control Board and the Alabama Department of Public Safety. First Assistant United States Attorney Clark Morris prosecuted the case.
corruption HOUSTON—The former mayor of Progreso and three others have been sentenced for their convictions related a bribery scheme that permeated the town of Progreso and the local school board, announced United States Attorney Kenneth Magidson. Omar, Jose and Michael Vela were originally charged along with Jesus Bustos based on their participation in a scheme to create a “pay to play” public contracting system in Progreso. The Velas all pleaded guilty to conspiracy and bribery concerning programs receiving federal funds, while Bustos, 58, pleaded guilty to conspiracy. In a separate, but related case, Orlando Vela was convicted of theft from a program receiving federal funds. Michael, 30, Omar, 36, and Orlando, 34, are brothers and Jose, 65, is their father. Omar was the mayor of Progreso at the time of the criminal behavior. Michael was the president of the Progreso Independent School District Board (PISD) of Trustees, Orlando was employed by PISD as a risk manager and Jose was PISD’s director of maintenance and transportation. Today, U.S. District Judge U.S. District Judge David Hittner sentenced Jose Vela to 120 months for the bribery concerning federally-funded programs and a consecutive 31 months for the conspiracy for a total of 151 months in federal prison. Omar and Michael Vela will serve 121 and 71 months, respectively, while Orlando received a 10-month-term. They will all also serve three years of supervised release. In addition, Jose Vela was ordered to pay a $10,000 fine and forfeit $300,000. Omar and Michael Vela were ordered to forfeit $314,000 and $300,000, respectfully, while Orlando was ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $12,874.42. Bustos will be sentenced Aug. 27, 2014. From 2004 through 2013, PISD received more than $1 million per year in federal program grants and funds from the U.S. Department of Education. In order to obtain contracts from PISD or from the City of Progreso, contractors were required to pay bribes. The Velas were able to extract bribes from contractors as a result of their political control of Progreso and PISD. As government officials, Michael and Omar had a level of control over local government. In addition, Jose Vela controlled the PISD School Board by rewarding board members who voted as he directed with bribe money. Through this control over the PISD Board, Jose Vela caused contracts with PISD to be awarded to contractors who were willing to pay him bribes and kickbacks in return. Omar and Michael Vela assisted their father by gathering bribe payments from contractors and delivering the payments to him. They were then given a portion of those monies. In total, Jose, Omar and Michael extracted more than $300,000 in bribe payments. Bustos, a local architect, admitted that from 2004 through 2013, he paid bribes and kickbacks to obtain architectural contracts for his architectural firm IDEA Group LLC on public projects in the area. These included the Mario Ybarra Elementary School Construction project in Weslaco and West Elementary School, Fine Arts Center, North Elementary School and the Science and Technology building in Progreso. In addition, from April 2009 to December 2012, Omar Vela instructed the owner of a plumbing and electrical supply company to provide fraudulent invoices to PISD and the City of Progreso for products they did not provide. When the invoices were paid, the owner returned the funds to Vela, resulting in more than $14,000 in kickbacks. In a separate, but related case, Orlando Vela admitted he was responsible for directing and managing the school district’s risk management, loss control and safety programs. On May 11, 2012, he formed a company called Borderline Office Supplies which purported to be in the business of supplying office and janitorial products to school districts. Between May 2012 and March 2013, Orlando Vela submitted invoices to PISD for products that Borderline did not actually supply to PISD. The payments on the fraudulent invoices were approved by PISD’s business manager, Orlando Vela’s wife, and totaled $12,874.42. All were taken into custody following the sentences today, where they will remain pending transfer to a U.S. Bureau of Prisons facility to be determined in the near future. The investigation was conducted by the FBI. Assistant United States Attorney Robert S. Johnson is prosecuting the case.
corruption HOUSTON—The former mayor of Progreso and three others have been sentenced for their convictions related a bribery scheme that permeated the town of Progreso and the local school board, announced United States Attorney Kenneth Magidson. Omar, Jose and Michael Vela were originally charged along with Jesus Bustos based on their participation in a scheme to create a “pay to play” public contracting system in Progreso. The Velas all pleaded guilty to conspiracy and bribery concerning programs receiving federal funds, while Bustos, 58, pleaded guilty to conspiracy. In a separate, but related case, Orlando Vela was convicted of theft from a program receiving federal funds. Michael, 30, Omar, 36, and Orlando, 34, are brothers and Jose, 65, is their father. Omar was the mayor of Progreso at the time of the criminal behavior. Michael was the president of the Progreso Independent School District Board (PISD) of Trustees, Orlando was employed by PISD as a risk manager and Jose was PISD’s director of maintenance and transportation. Today, U.S. District Judge U.S. District Judge David Hittner sentenced Jose Vela to 120 months for the bribery concerning federally-funded programs and a consecutive 31 months for the conspiracy for a total of 151 months in federal prison. Omar and Michael Vela will serve 121 and 71 months, respectively, while Orlando received a 10-month-term. They will all also serve three years of supervised release. In addition, Jose Vela was ordered to pay a $10,000 fine and forfeit $300,000. Omar and Michael Vela were ordered to forfeit $314,000 and $300,000, respectfully, while Orlando was ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $12,874.42. Bustos will be sentenced Aug. 27, 2014. From 2004 through 2013, PISD received more than $1 million per year in federal program grants and funds from the U.S. Department of Education. In order to obtain contracts from PISD or from the City of Progreso, contractors were required to pay bribes. The Velas were able to extract bribes from contractors as a result of their political control of Progreso and PISD. As government officials, Michael and Omar had a level of control over local government. In addition, Jose Vela controlled the PISD School Board by rewarding board members who voted as he directed with bribe money. Through this control over the PISD Board, Jose Vela caused contracts with PISD to be awarded to contractors who were willing to pay him bribes and kickbacks in return. Omar and Michael Vela assisted their father by gathering bribe payments from contractors and delivering the payments to him. They were then given a portion of those monies. In total, Jose, Omar and Michael extracted more than $300,000 in bribe payments. Bustos, a local architect, admitted that from 2004 through 2013, he paid bribes and kickbacks to obtain architectural contracts for his architectural firm IDEA Group LLC on public projects in the area. These included the Mario Ybarra Elementary School Construction project in Weslaco and West Elementary School, Fine Arts Center, North Elementary School and the Science and Technology building in Progreso. In addition, from April 2009 to December 2012, Omar Vela instructed the owner of a plumbing and electrical supply company to provide fraudulent invoices to PISD and the City of Progreso for products they did not provide. When the invoices were paid, the owner returned the funds to Vela, resulting in more than $14,000 in kickbacks. In a separate, but related case, Orlando Vela admitted he was responsible for directing and managing the school district’s risk management, loss control and safety programs. On May 11, 2012, he formed a company called Borderline Office Supplies which purported to be in the business of supplying office and janitorial products to school districts. Between May 2012 and March 2013, Orlando Vela submitted invoices to PISD for products that Borderline did not actually supply to PISD. The payments on the fraudulent invoices were approved by PISD’s business manager, Orlando Vela’s wife, and totaled $12,874.42. All were taken into custody following the sentences today, where they will remain pending transfer to a U.S. Bureau of Prisons facility to be determined in the near future. The investigation was conducted by the FBI. Assistant United States Attorney Robert S. Johnson is prosecuting the case.
corruption ATLANTA—Former Fulton County Deputy Sheriff Reginald Warren has been sentenced for demanding bribe payments from security officers he scheduled to work at the City of Atlanta’s public swimming pools. “Mr. Warren’s conviction and sentence are a reflection of our commitment to make sure those who work within the law enforcement community respect and keep the public’s trust,” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. “This former deputy sheriff used his position and badge to extort kickbacks from workers contracted by the City of Atlanta to make the pools safe for its citizens and, consequently, betrayed the people he promised to help.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated: “The FBI remains committed to identifying, investigating, and presenting for prosecution those law enforcement officers who would sell their badges for personal gain and today’s sentencing reflects that commitment. The FBI, in carrying out its public corruption mandate, asks that the public report such activity to their nearest FBI field office.” According to United States Attorney Yates, the charges and other information presented in court: During the summer of 2011, while Warren was employed as a deputy with the Fulton County Sheriff’s Office, he contracted with the City of Atlanta to coordinate and supervise security at the city’s public swimming pools. In that capacity, Warren hired a number of security officers and scheduled them to work various shifts at pools located throughout the city. Soon after the officers were hired, Warren demanded payments from at least three officers in exchange for continuing to schedule them for more work. Over a three-month period, Warren accepted thousands of dollars in kickbacks from the officers which he pocketed for himself. Warren, 50, of Covington, Ga., was sentenced to one year, three months in federal prison, to be followed by supervised release for two years. He pleaded guilty on May 6, 2014. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Brent Alan Gray prosecuted the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Presse-mails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the home page for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Atlanta Division is http://www.justice.gov/usao/gan/.
corruption HOUSTON—Crystal M. Washington, aka Crystal Bureau, 54, has been ordered to federal prison following her convictions of accepting bribes from parolees and conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute heroin, announced United States Attorney Kenneth Magidson. Washington was employed as a parole officer at the Texas Department of Criminal Justice (TDCJ) office located on Hamilton Street in Houston. A federal jury convicted her Dec. 10, 2013. Today, U.S. District Judge Lee H. Rosenthal, who presided over the trial, handed Washington a total sentence of 60 months of federal imprisonment to be immediately followed by three years of supervised release. Following the two-day trial last year, the jury found Washington accepted bribes from a parolee—a suspected heroin dealer—from 2009 to 2012 and that she warned the dealer of a Houston Police Department investigation in 2009. She was convicted of conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute heroin as well as conspiracy to commit extortion under color of official right for accepting money from the dealer. Further evidence was presented which showed Washington accepting money from a cooperating parolee in May 2012. Washington was relieved of all duties and her employment terminated upon arrest. Previously released on bond, Washington was taken into custody following the sentencing today where she will remain pending transfer to a U.S. Bureau of Prisons facility to be determined in the near future. The operation was a combined public corruption task force effort by the FBI, Houston Police Department, TDCJ-Office of Inspector General and the Texas Rangers. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Jim McAlister and Carolyn Ferko.
corruption The Department of Justice has forfeited more than $480 million in corruption proceeds hidden in bank accounts around the world by former Nigerian dictator Sani Abacha and his co-conspirators. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and Assistant Director in Charge Valerie Parlave of the FBI’s Washington Field Office made the announcement after a judgment was entered on Aug. 6, 2014, by U.S. District Judge John D. Bates of the District of Columbia. “Rather than serve his county, General Abacha used his public office in Nigeria to loot millions of dollars, engaging in brazen acts of kleptocracy,” said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. “With this judgment, we have forfeited $480 million in corruption proceeds that can be used for the benefit of the Nigerian people. Through the Kleptocracy Asset Recovery Initiative, the Department of Justice’s Criminal Division denies kleptocrats like Abacha the fruits of their crimes, and protects the U.S. financial system from money laundering. In coordination with our partners in Jersey, France and the United Kingdom, we are helping to end this chapter of corruption and flagrant abuse of office.” “We remain steadfast in protecting the U.S. banking system from becoming a tool for dictators to hide their criminal proceeds,” said Assistant Director in Charge Parlave. “This court order bolsters the FBI’s ability to combat international corruption and money laundering by seizing the assets of those involved. I want to thank the special agents, financial analysts and prosecutors whose hard work over the years resulted in today’s announcement.” The forfeited assets represent the proceeds of corruption during and after the military regime of General Abacha, who assumed the office of the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria through a military coup on Nov. 17, 1993, and held that position until his death on June 8, 1998. The complaint alleges that General Abacha, his son Mohammed Sani Abacha, their associate Abubakar Atiku Bagudu and others embezzled, misappropriated and extorted billions of dollars from the government of Nigeria and others, then laundered their criminal proceeds through U.S. financial institutions and the purchase of bonds backed by the United States. The judgment is the result of a civil forfeiture complaint the department filed in November 2013 against more than $625 million in the largest kleptocracy forfeiture action brought in the department’s history. The forfeiture judgment includes approximately $303 million in two bank accounts in the Bailiwick of Jersey, $144 million in two bank accounts in France, and three bank accounts in the United Kingdom and Ireland with an expected value of at least $27 million. The ultimate disposition of the funds will follow the execution of the judgment in each of these jurisdictions. Claims to an additional approximately $148 million in four investment portfolios in the United Kingdom are pending. As alleged in the complaint, General Abacha and others systematically embezzled billions of dollars in public funds from the Central Bank of Nigeria on the false pretense that the funds were necessary for national security. The conspirators withdrew the funds in cash and then moved the money overseas through U.S. financial institutions. General Abacha and his finance minister also allegedly caused the government of Nigeria to purchase Nigerian government bonds at vastly inflated prices from a company controlled by Bagudu and Mohammed Abacha, generating an illegal windfall of more than $282 million. In addition, General Abacha and his associates allegedly extorted more than $11 million from a French company and its Nigerian affiliate in connection with payments on government contracts. Funds involved in each of these schemes were allegedly laundered through the United States. This case was brought under the Kleptocracy Asset Recovery Initiative by a team of dedicated prosecutors in the Criminal Division’s Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section, working in partnership with federal law enforcement agencies to forfeit the proceeds of foreign official corruption and, where appropriate, to use those recovered assets to benefit the people harmed by these acts of corruption and abuse of office. Individuals with information about possible proceeds of foreign corruption located in or laundered through the United States should contact federal law enforcement or send an e-mail to kleptocracy@usdoj.gov. The investigation was conducted by the FBI. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Elizabeth Aloi and Assistant Deputy Chief Daniel Claman of the Criminal Division’s Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section, with substantial support from the Criminal Division’s Office of International Affairs. The department appreciates the extensive assistance provided by the governments of Jersey, France and the United Kingdom in this investigation.
corruption SAN FRANCISCO—A federal grand jury earlier today indicted Alfred J. Villalobos, of Reno, Nev., on charges of conspiracy to commit corruption offenses and to defraud the United States, engaging in a scheme to conceal material facts from the United States, and conspiracy to commit mail fraud and wire fraud, announced U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag, U.S. Postal Inspection Service, Inspector in Charge Rafael E. Nunez, FBI Special Agent in Charge David J. Johnson, and U.S. Secret Service Special Agent in Charge Andrew Adelmann. This indictment adds corruption allegations to, and supersedes, an earlier indictment returned in March 2013. According to the superseding indictment, Villalobos conspired with Fred Buenrostro, the former Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) of the California Public Employee Retirement System (“CalPERS”) in connection with a $3 billion investment by CalPERS into funds managed by Apollo Global Management (“Apollo”), a private equity firm based in New York City. Villalobos, through his financial services firm, ARVCO Capital Research LLC (“ARVCO”), acted as the placement agent through which Apollo secured the investments by CalPERS. The superseding indictment alleges that no later than 2005, Villalobos began giving Buenrostro secret benefits for the purpose of influencing and rewarding him in the exercise of his powers and duties as CEO concerning CalPERS’ financial transactions, investment operations, and internal deliberations, for the benefit of Villalobos. The benefits from Villalobos included payments of approximately $250,000, as well as gifts, domestic and international travel, meals, entertainment, payment for Buenrostro’s wedding, and his subsequent employment at ARVCO after he left CalPERS in May of 2008. In exchange, Buenrostro provided Villalobos with access to CalPERS’ confidential information relating to investments and other proprietary matters and attempted to influence the CalPERS investment staff and CalPERS Board, as directed by Villalobos. In 2007, Apollo told ARVCO that it required signed Investor Disclosure letters from CalPERS prior to paying ARVCO any fees for its efforts in securing CalPERS’ investments into Apollo-managed funds. After CalPERS’ legal and investment offices declined to sign the first Investor Disclosure letter documenting ARVCO’s relationship with Apollo, Villalobos and Buenrostro conspired to create a series of fraudulent Investor Disclosure letters that were transmitted to Apollo. Apollo paid ARVCO a total of approximately $14 million dollars in fees after receiving the fraudulent letters. The superseding indictment further alleges that when civil and later criminal investigations were opened into the operations of ARVCO and its role as a placement agent in connection with CalPERS’ investments in Apollo-managed funds, Villalobos and Buenrostro agreed on a false version of facts and subsequently made misrepresentations to, and concealed information from, the SEC, the USPIS, and the FBI, about their financial relationship and the authenticity of the Investor Disclosure letters. On July 11, 2014, Buenrostro was charged by superseding information with a single count of conspiracy in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371, and pleaded guilty before the Honorable Charles Breyer, United States District Court Judge, to that charge in an agreement with the government that included his promise to cooperate in future investigations. Both defendants are currently released on bond. The arraignment for Villalobos on the superseding indictment is not yet scheduled. However, a status hearing is scheduled before Judge Breyer for Aug. 8, 2014, at 9:00 a.m. The maximum statutory penalty for conspiracy to defraud the United States, and for a scheme to conceal material facts from the United States, is five years of imprisonment, $250,000 fine or twice the amount of gain or loss, whichever is greater, three years of supervised release, and a $100 special assessment. The maximum statutory penalty for conspiracy to commit mail fraud and wire fraud is 20 years’ imprisonment, $250,000 fine or twice the amount of gain or loss, whichever is greater, three years of supervised release, and a $100 special assessment. Restitution may also be ordered as to each of the three counts. However, any sentence following conviction would be imposed by the court after consideration of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and the federal statute governing the imposition of a sentence, 18 U.S.C. § 3553. Timothy J. Lucey and Philip A. Guentert are the Assistant United States Attorneys who are prosecuting the case with the assistance of Laurie Worthen and Beth Margen. The prosecution is the result of an investigation by the U.S. Postal Inspection Service and the FBI, with substantial assistance from the Los Angeles Regional Office of the SEC as well as the U.S. Secret Service. Please note, an Indictment contains only allegations and, as with all defendants, Alfred J. Villalobos must be presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, announced that EDWARD HOGAN, 38, and his brother, JUSTIN HOGAN, 34, both of Waterbury, pleaded guilty today to federal narcotics trafficking and mail theft charges. This matter stems from a federal investigation into the use of the mails to transport narcotics from Puerto Rico to the greater Waterbury area. According to court documents and statements made in court, EDWARD HOGAN was employed by the U.S. Postal Service as a supervisor of customer service assigned to the Plaza Station Post Office in Waterbury. Beginning in approximately January 2012, HOGAN used his position with the U.S. Postal Service to remove parcels containing cocaine and marijuana from the mail stream. EDWARD and JUSTIN HOGAN then distributed the drugs to third parties for profit. On November 9, 2013, law enforcement surveilled EDWARD HOGAN as he intercepted a package containing approximately two kilograms of cocaine that was delivered to the Waterbury Main Post Office on Grand Street. He then transported the parcel to his residence. JUSTIN HOGAN arrived at the residence a short time later and opened the package in EDWARD HOGAN’s presence. EDWARD HOGAN pleaded guilty before Senior U.S. District Judge Ellen Bree Burns in New Haven to one count of conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute 500 grams or more of cocaine, and one count of embezzlement of mail by a U.S. Postal Employee. JUSTIN HOGAN pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Vanessa L. Bryant in Hartford to one count of conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute 500 grams or more of cocaine, and one count of receipt of stolen mail matter. The defendants face a maximum term of imprisonment of 25 years when they are sentenced. EDWARD HOGAN has also agreed to forfeit $22,364 in cash that was seized at the time of his arrest. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the U.S. Postal Inspection Service and the U.S. Postal Service—Office of Inspector General. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher M. Mattei.
corruption ATLANTA—Thirteen defendants, including nine former police officers, have been sentenced to federal prison this week for accepting thousands of dollars in cash payments to provide protection during staged drug deals that were part of a federal undercover operation. “This case sent shock waves through Georgia law enforcement offices, both local and federal,” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. “Certainly, these departments are filled with dedicated officers who literally risk their lives every day to make our communities safe. But this case revealed a troubling number of officers from a variety of law enforcement agencies who betrayed their oaths to protect and serve, taking cash from the very criminals they should have been arresting.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated: “While the sentences in this extensive law enforcement corruption matter ends the careers of those law enforcement and correctional officers involved, it can serve as an opportunity to those many other law enforcement officers and personnel to re-dedicate themselves to the oaths of office that they took when they accepted the badge. It also serves as a reminder to the public that the FBI remains responsive to such allegations of police misconduct and corruption and will investigate and present for prosecution those involved.” “The vast majority of law enforcement officers serve the public with honor and distinction,” said Acting Special Agent in Charge Ray Brown of the Atlanta ATF Field Office. “Officers like these unfortunately tarnish the badge of the committed men and women of law enforcement. These individuals will now have to face the consequences for their deplorable actions. ATF will remain on the frontline of preventing violent crime through the dynamic level of law enforcement cooperation with our partners.” Seven defendants who have been sentenced were active law enforcement officers during the time when they protected drug deals. Once the officers were arrested in February 2013, they were fired and are no longer police officers. All pleaded guilty before a federal judge. Those sentenced were: Kelvin Allen, 42, of Atlanta, Ga., an officer with the Atlanta Police Department, was sentenced to five years in prison to be followed by five years of supervised release; Dennis Duren, 32, of Atlanta, Ga., an officer with the DeKalb County Police Department, was sentenced to seven years in prison to be followed by five years of supervised release; Dorian Williams, 25, of Stone Mountain, Ga., an officer with the DeKalb County Police Department, was sentenced to seven years in prison to be followed by five years of supervised release; Victor Middlebrook, 44, of Jonesboro, Ga., a Forest Park Police Department Sergeant, was sentenced to seven years in prison to be followed by five years of supervised release; Marquez Holmes, 45, of Jonesboro, Ga., a MARTA Police Department Officer, was sentenced to five years in prison to be followed by five years of supervised release; Denoris Carter, 42, of Lithonia, Ga., a Stone Mountain Police Department Officer, was sentenced to three years, one month in prison to be followed by five years of supervised release; and Federal Protective Services Officer Sharon Peters, 43, of Lithonia, Ga., was sentenced to three years in prison to be followed by five years of supervised release. Also sentenced this week were two defendants who were former DeKalb County Sheriff’s Office jail officers at the time they protected the purported drug deals: Monyette McLaurin, 37, of Atlanta, Ga., was sentenced to six years in prison to be followed by five years of supervised release; and Chase Valentine, 44, of Covington, Ga., was sentenced to two years, nine months in prison to be followed by five years of supervised release. Also sentenced were four defendants who were not law enforcement officers, but who participated in the drug transactions: Elizabeth Coss, 35, of Atlanta, Ga., was sentenced to six months in custody to be followed by six months of home confinement, and five years of supervised release; Gregory Lee Harvey, 26, of Stone Mountain, Ga., was sentenced to nine years in prison to be followed by five years of supervised release; Alexander B. Hill, 22, of Ellenwood, Ga., was sentenced to five years in prison to be followed by five years of supervised release; and Jerry B. Mannery, Jr., 38, of Tucker, Ga., was sentenced to four years in prison to be followed by three years of supervised release. According to United States Attorney Yates, the charges, and other information presented in court: The undercover operation arose out of an ATF investigation of an Atlanta, Ga., area street gang in August 2011. ATF agents learned from an individual associated with the gang that police officers were involved in protecting the gang’s criminal operations, including drug trafficking crimes. According to this cooperating individual, the officers—while wearing uniforms, driving police vehicles, or otherwise displaying badges—provided security to the gang members during drug deals. Three individuals, while not law enforcement officers themselves, provided the cooperator with the names of police officers who wanted to provide security for drug deals. Once these officers were identified, FBI and ATF agents arranged with the cooperator for the officers to provide security for drug transactions that were described in advance to involve the sale of multiple kilograms of cocaine. The police officers, almost always wearing their uniform and displaying a weapon and occasionally in their police vehicles, patrolled the parking lots where the deals took place and monitored the transactions. These transactions were audio and video recorded. Specifically, the undercover investigation included the following transactions: DeKalb County Police Department Dennis Duren. Between October 2011 and November 2011, then DeKalb County Police Officer Dennis Duren provided protection for what he believed were four separate transactions in the Atlanta area that involved multiple kilograms of cocaine. Duren and a co-defendant accepted cash payments totaling $8,800 for these services. During the transactions, Duren was dressed in his DeKalb County Police uniform and carried a gun in a holster on his belt, as he patrolled on foot in the parking lots in which the undercover sales took place. Duren pleaded guilty to one of those deals, which occurred on November 1, 2011. Dorian Williams. Between January and February 2013, then DeKalb County Police Officer Dorian Williams provided protection for what he believed were three separate transactions in the Atlanta area that involved multiple kilograms of cocaine. Williams and his co-defendant accepted cash payments totaling $18,000 for these services. During the transactions, Williams was dressed in his DeKalb County Police uniform and carried a gun in a holster on his belt, and he patrolled the parking lots in which the undercover sales took place in his DeKalb Police vehicle. Williams pleaded guilty to one of those deals that occurred on January 28, 2013. Stone Mountain Police Department Denoris Carter. Between April and September 2012, then Stone Mountain Police Officer Denoris Carter provided protection for what he believed were five separate transactions in the Atlanta area that involved multiple kilograms of cocaine. For these services, Carter and his co-defendant accepted cash payments totaling $23,500. For all five transactions, Carter wore his Stone Mountain Police uniform. In four of the deals, he arrived in his police cruiser and either patrolled or parked in the parking lots in which the undercover sales took place and watched the transactions. During the final transaction in September 2012, Carter was on foot, displaying a firearm in a holster on his belt, and walked through the parking lot in which the transaction took place while watching the participants. Carter pleaded guilty to one of those deals that occurred on September 20, 2012. Atlanta Police Department Kelvin D. Allen. Between June and August 2012, then Atlanta Police officer Kelvin D. Allen provided protection for what he believed were three separate transactions in the Atlanta area that involved multiple kilograms of cocaine. Allen and his co-defendant accepted cash payments totaling $10,500 for their services. For two transactions, Allen dressed in his Atlanta Police uniform and carried a gun in a holster on his belt. Allen patrolled on foot in parking lots in which the undercover sales took place and appeared to be monitoring the transactions. Allen pleaded guilty to one of those deals that occurred on July 6, 2012. MARTA Police Department Marquez Holmes. Between August and November 2012, then MARTA Police Department Officer Marquez Holmes provided protection for what he believed were four separate transactions in the Atlanta area that involved multiple kilograms of cocaine. For these services, Holmes and a co-defendant accepted cash payments totaling $9,000. During the transactions, Holmes was dressed in his MARTA Police uniform and carried a gun in a holster on his belt. In two of the transactions, Holmes patrolled on foot in the parking lots in which the undercover sales took place and monitored the transactions. During the other two deals, Holmes drove to the site in his MARTA police cruiser and parked next to the vehicles in which the undercover drug sale took place. Holmes pleaded guilty to one of those deals that occurred on November 8, 2012. Forest Park Police Department Victor Middlebrook. Between October to December 2012, then Forest Park Police Sergeant Victor Middlebrook provided protection for what he believed were six separate drug deals in the Atlanta area, each involving multiple kilograms of cocaine. For his services in the first four transactions, Middlebook accepted cash payments totaling $13,800. During these transactions, Middlebrook wore plain clothes, but displayed his badge and a firearm in a holster on his belt. He patrolled on foot in the parking lots nearby the vehicles in which the undercover sales took place and appeared to be monitoring the transactions. Middlebrook pleaded guilty to one of those deals that occurred on December 7, 2012. DeKalb County Sheriff’s Office Monyette McLaurin. In January 2013, former DeKalb County Sheriff Jail Officer Monyette McLaurin provided protection for what he believed were two separate drug transactions in the Atlanta area that involved multiple kilograms of cocaine. For his services, McLaurin and a co-defendant were paid $12,000 in cash. During a meeting to discuss future drug transactions, McLaurin falsely represented that he was a deputy employed by the DeKalb Sheriff’s office, even though his position as a jail officer ended in 2011. During the two transactions McLaurin was dressed in a DeKalb County Sheriff’s Office uniform with a badge, and he carried a gun in a holster on his belt. McLaurin pleaded guilty to one of those deals that occurred on January 3, 2013. Chase Valentine. In January 2013, former DeKalb County Sheriff’s Jail Officer, Chase Valentine, helped McLaurin and another co-defendant, Gregory Lee Harvey, provide security for what he believed were drug deals. Like McLaurin, Valentine falsely represented himself to be a DeKalb County Sheriff’s Deputy, even though his position as a jail officer ended in 2010. Valentine provided security for one undercover drug transaction on January 17, 2013, during which he wore a DeKalb Sheriff’s Office uniform and a pistol in a holster on his belt. Valentine pleaded guilty to that one deal, which occurred on January 17, 2013. Gregory Lee Harvey. In December 2012, Harvey falsely represented that he was a DeKalb County detention officer and protected what he believed were two multiple kilogram deals of cocaine while wearing a black shirt with the letters “SHERIFF” printed across the back. After this, Harvey stated that he knew other police officers who wanted to protect drug deals, and in January 2013 he introduced McLaurin as one of these officers. Harvey protected a total of seven separate transactions and pleaded guilty to one transaction, which occurred on December 17, 2012. Federal Protective Services Sharon Peters. In November 2012, Sharon Peters, who was then a contract officer for the Federal Protective Services provided protection for what she believed were two separate transactions in the Atlanta area that involved multiple kilograms of cocaine. For these services, Peters and a co-defendant accepted cash payments totaling $14,000. For both transactions, Peters parked her vehicle nearby the cars where the sham drugs and money were exchanged, and watched the transactions. Peters pleaded guilty to one of those deals that occurred on November 19, 2012. Imposter Clayton County Police Officer Alexander B. Hill. Between December 2012 and January 2013, Alexander B. Hill falsely represented himself to be an officer with the Clayton County Police Department while providing security for what he believed were three separate drug transactions in the Atlanta area that involved multiple kilograms of cocaine. During an initial meeting, Hill wore a uniform that appeared to be from Clayton Police, but during the transactions he wore plain clothes and, for at least the first deal, a badge displayed on his belt. For these services, Hill received payments totaling $9,000 in cash. Hill pleaded guilty to one of those deals that occurred on December 20, 2012. The Recruiters Jerry B. Mannery, Jr. Mannery never presented himself as a law enforcement officer, but he introduced corrupt officers Carter and Peters to the informant, and coordinated the drug deals that those officers’ protected. Mannery, along with one or more corrupt law enforcement officer, provided security for what he believed were ten separate drug transactions in the Atlanta area that involved multiple kilograms of cocaine. For these services, Mannery and his co-defendants received payments totaling over $30,000 in cash. Mannery pleaded guilty to drug conspiracy for deals occurring between April 9, 2012 and February 1, 2013. Elizabeth Coss. Like Mannery, Coss never presented herself as a law enforcement officer, but instead introduced corrupt officers Holmes and Williams to the informant. Coss, along with one of the two corrupt law enforcement officers, provided security for what she believed were five separate drug transactions in the Atlanta area that involved multiple kilograms of cocaine. For these services, Coss and her co-defendants received payments totaling over $17,000 in cash. Coss pleaded guilty to one drug deal that occurred on August 15, 2012. These cases were investigated by special agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. Assistant United States Attorneys Kim Dammers and Brent Alan Gray prosecuted these cases.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—Former Philadelphia Traffic Court Judge Robert Mulgrew, 56, of Philadelphia, was sentenced today to 30 months in prison for defrauding the Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development (“DCED”). Mulgrew pleaded guilty on September 19, 2013 to mail fraud and conspiracy to commit mail fraud and filing a false tax return. In addition to the prison term, U.S. District Court Judge Darnell C. Jones ordered restitution to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development in the amount of $199,274, three years of supervised release, and $200 special assessment. Mulgrew also paid restitution, penalties and interest to the IRS in the amount of $123,314. Mulgrew and co-defendant Lorraine Dispaldo, who previously pleaded guilty, engaged in a scheme to fraudulently receive and misuse Pennsylvania state grant funds awarded to non-profit groups. Between 1996 and 2008, the DCED awarded hundreds of thousands of dollars in grants to two community groups with which Mulgrew and Dispaldo were associated. DCED awarded more than $450,000 in grants to the Friends of Dickinson Square (“FDS”) with the understanding that the grants were to be used to purchase equipment and materials for the maintenance of Dickinson Square Park at 4th & Tasker Streets, Philadelphia, and surrounding neighborhood revitalization. Mulgrew, the Vice-President of FDS, signed the FDS grant contracts with DCED. DCED also awarded approximately $397,000 in grants to the Community to Police Communications (“CPC”) with the understanding that the grants were to be used to purchase communications equipment for the police and to purchase materials to secure vacant lots and buildings for the protection of the police. Dispaldo signed the CPC grant contracts with DCED. The defendants misrepresented their intentions to DCED, and that—contrary to their agreement to spend grant funds solely to purchase equipment and materials for neighborhood revitalization and improved communications with the police—the defendants used thousands of grant dollars to pay Mulgrew’s relatives and associates. They represented that they were paying for work done on behalf of FDS and CPC. After distributing grant funds to relatives and associates, the defendants supplied false and misleading information to DCED to conceal the actual amount of grant funds which they paid to the relatives and associates contrary to the express purposes of the grant. Mulgrew conceded that he received almost $70,000 in grant funds for his own personal uses. Mulgrew improperly reimbursed himself from FDS funds for thousands of dollars of expenditures which he claimed were incurred by FDS when they were not and for his expenditures for items not authorized under the terms of the FDS grants. Mulgrew and Dispaldo supplied DCED with false documents to conceal their own use of grant funds and other improper uses of the funds. Mulgrew did not report the additional income from the fraud scheme on his tax return and claimed false business deductions which improperly reduced his tax liability. Dispaldo was sentenced in November 2013 to 18 months in prison. The case was investigated by the Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Paul L.Gray.
corruption Violation of Public Trust Corrupt Officials Jailed for Abusing Justice System 08/05/14 In the run-up to the 2012 primary elections in Mingo County, West Virginia, a group of officials adopted a campaign slogan to promote their political slate: Team Mingo. But the judge, sheriff, and county prosecuting attorney who were part of the alliance—among the most powerful men in the local judicial system—used their authority to serve their own interests rather than those of the citizens who elected them. “These men essentially ran the county’s legal system,” said Special Agent Jim Lafferty, who investigated the case out of our Pittsburgh Field Office. The ringleader was Circuit Court Judge Michael Thornsbury. “The judge and his team were the power in Mingo County,” Lafferty explained. “They didn’t like anyone who tried to oppose them. If you were an attorney or an individual who wanted to get a fair shake in the court system, you had to play whatever game they wanted you to play. It was a toxic environment.” We opened a case in September 2012. Lafferty and retired Special Agent Joe Ciccarelli—with the help of West Virginia State Police investigators—uncovered evidence that Thornsbury, then-Sheriff Eugene Crum (who had formerly been the county’s chief magistrate judge), and Michael Sparks, then the county’s prosecuting attorney, had been engaging in corrupt activities. Specifically, the judge coerced a local drug defendant into firing his defense counsel because Thornsbury and other Team Mingo officials, including former County Commissioner David Baisden, learned that the drug defendant was prepared to testify that Sheriff Crum had illegally received prescription pain medication and obtained unlawful campaign contributions. To protect Crum, Thornsbury and his colleagues pressured the defendant into firing his defense attorney and replacing him with another attorney handpicked by Team Mingo. After switching lawyers and pleading guilty to lesser charges, the defendant dropped his allegations against Crum and was sentenced to up to 15 years in prison. In addition, Thornsbury was later charged with trying to frame the husband of a woman with whom he was having an affair. The judge tried to have drugs planted in the husband’s car. When that plan failed, he arranged to have the man arrested for stealing scrap metal—even when it was determined the man had been given permission to take the material. In June, Thornsbury was sent to prison for more than four years for denying residents their constitutional rights. The federal judge who sentenced him compared Thornsbury’s abuses of office to the actions of a Third World dictator. Sparks, the former prosecutor who later cooperated with our investigation, was recently sentenced to a year in prison for his role in Team Mingo’s illegal activities. Others previously jailed as a result of the corruption probe include Baisden, sentenced in January to 20 months’ imprisonment, and former Mingo County chief magistrate Dallas Toler, sentenced in March to 27 months in prison. “Team Mingo controlled the legal system, and they may have thought no one would stand up against them,” said Lafferty, who has been investigating public corruption and white-collar crime for more than a decade. “That didn’t turn out to be the case. No matter how much power you wield,” he added, “when you violate the public trust and engage in corruption, sooner or later, you will get caught.” Resources: - Thornsbury press release - Sparks press release - More about our efforts to combat public corruption
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, announced that former Hartford police detective TISHAY JOHNSON, 40, of Windsor, was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge Robert N. Chatigny in Hartford to three years of probation, the first six months of which JOHNSON must serve in home confinement, for his theft of nearly $30,000 in firearm permit fees. JOHNSON was also ordered to perform 300 hours of community service and make full restitution. According to court documents and statements made in court, Hartford residents seeking a permit to carry a concealed weapon are required to submit an application to the City of Hartford through the Hartford Police Department. The application includes a municipal application processing fee of $70 to Hartford and a background check fee of $66.50 to the State of Connecticut. JOHNSON administered the Hartford Police Department’s concealed weapons permit program and was responsible for processing citizens’ applications, collecting the application fees and depositing the fees into the appropriate city or state accounts. Between October 2009 and January 2014, JOHNSON embezzled $29,426.75 that had been paid in connection with permit applications by altering checks and money orders to make it appear that the checks and money orders were payable to him. He also forged signatures on checks to make it appear that the intended payee had endorsed the check over to him. JOHNSON then deposited the funds into a personal checking account. JOHNSON was ordered to make restitution of $17,442.50 to the City of Hartford and $11,984.25 to the State of Connecticut. JOHNSON resigned from the Hartford Police Department in January 2014. On May 5, 2014, he pleaded guilty to one count of theft from a local government receiving federal funds. This matter was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Hartford Police Department, and was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher M. Mattei.
corruption CHICAGO—A former west suburban Lyons police officer was sentenced today to five years in federal prison for illegally extorting more than $48,000 from targets of criminal investigations he was supposedly conducting during 2013. The defendant, JIMMY J. RODGERS, who was a 14-year veteran of the Lyons Police Department, was sentenced after pleading guilty in May to extortion. Rodgers, 44, of Chicago, was assigned to a U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Office of Criminal Investigations, task force and his duties included investigating the sale of contraband and counterfeit cigarettes. In the course of his work, he set up six fake transactions with criminals, detained them, hand-cuffed them, stole their goods and funds for his own benefit, threatened them, and then lied and concealed the scam. “The temptation for police officers to extort illegal operations is great. People need to know they will go to jail for this conduct,” U.S. District Judge Thomas M. Durkin said in imposing the 60-month sentence. “The sentence here should serve as a reminder that the penalty for shaking people down is not a slap on the wrist.” Rodgers was also fined $48,980 and was ordered to begin serving his sentence on Nov. 7. Rodgers was arrested last September and pleaded guilty in May. According to court records, Rodgers recruited cooperating sources to assist in setting up transactions in which the source would sell contraband cigarettes to potential targets of the investigation. Rodgers agreed to pay the sources a fee for each transaction the sources conducted. Rodgers’ extortion was discovered by the FBI when one of the confidential sources reported the conduct after realizing that none of the targets were arrested, the transactions were not recorded, and Rodgers had begun paying him in cash from proceeds of the transactions instead of with checks from the Lyons Police Department as Rodgers had arranged previously. The sentence was announced by Zachary T. Fardon, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois, and Robert J. Holley, Special Agent-in-Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The Lyons Police Department and FDA’s Office of Criminal Investigations assisted in the investigation. The government was represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Sunil Harjani.
corruption KANSAS CITY, MO—Tammy Dickinson, United States Attorney for the Western District of Missouri, announced that the former mayor of Grandview, Mo., was sentenced in federal court today for a wire fraud scheme in which he used a bogus charity to steal $35,000 in contributions from International House of Prayer, a local nonprofit organization. Stephen S. Dennis, 51, of Grandview, was sentenced by U.S. Senior District Judge Howard F. Sachs to one year and one day in federal prison without parole. The court also ordered Dennis to pay a $5,000 fine; International House of Prayer requested that no restitution should be ordered. Dennis will surrender to begin serving his prison term on Sept. 15, 2014. On Feb. 11, 2014, Dennis pleaded guilty to the felony offense of wire fraud. Dennis resigned as mayor of Grandview on Jan. 10, 2014. Dennis admitted that he engaged in a scheme from Dec. 12, 2011, to Nov. 29, 2013, to solicit donations for a corporation called Matters of the Heart. Dennis incorporated Matters of the Heart as a nonprofit corporation under state law, but falsely claimed it was also a federally tax-exempt 501(c)(3) corporation. Dennis never applied for 501(c)(3) status with the IRS for Matters of the Heart, even though application instructions were given to him in December 2011 by an attorney from whom he sought legal advice. Dennis received two checks totaling $35,000 from International House of Prayer Forerunner Christian Fellowship, a nonprofit organization in Grandview, in 2012. After obtaining the $35,000, Dennis used these funds for his own personal benefit, including his immediate family’s living expenses, rather than for any charitable purpose. Matters of the Heart, which is now dissolved, was purportedly organized “to be a local community outreach to the poor and disadvantaged,” according to its articles of incorporation, and to “administer funds and property of any kind for … religious, charitable, cultural, scientific, literary and education purposes.” In the organization’s articles of incorporation, Dennis listed himself as incorporator, registered agent, and one of the three directors of the board. He listed two persons, identified as “B.S.” and “J.M.” as the other two directors. B.S. and J.M. had no knowledge that they were listed as directors, and at no time gave Dennis permission or authority to claim them as such. B.S. and J.M. have never served as directors on the Matters of the Heart board of directors. This case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Roseann A. Ketchmark. It was investigated by the FBI. Public Corruption Hotline The FBI has established a toll-free public corruption hotline, 1-855-KCPCTIP, and e-mail KCPCTIP@ic.fbi.gov. Details regarding the various types of public corruption investigated by the FBI can be found online: http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/investigate/corruption
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Filed Office, and J.D. Patterson, Director, Miami-Dade Police Department (MDPD), announce the indictment of Roderick Silva, 45, of Miami, a police officer who formerly served as a detective assigned to the MDPD Narcotics Bureau. The indictment charges Silva with one count of aiding and abetting a conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute marijuana in violation of Title 21, United States Code, Section 846, and one of count of extortion in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1951. The conspiracy charge against Officer Silva alleges that he aided and abetted a group of persons who were illegally growing hydroponic marijuana in numerous homes that they owned, rented, or otherwise controlled, in the south west Miami-Dade County area. The conspiracy charge further identified this group of persons as members of the Santiesteban family, and their friends and associates. The Santiesteban family members, and a number of their friends and associates, have already been convicted in a federal prosecution brought against them in 2012 for conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute over 1000 marijuana plants. They pled guilty to that charge in 2013, and are serving long prison sentences. The conspiracy charge also alleges that Officer Silva aided and abetted the Santiesteban family members, and their friends and associates, in their marijuana growing activities by providing them with confidential MDPD information about when MDPD narcotics detectives were investigating them, and when they might have their marijuana grow houses searched, and their marijuana plants seized; and by providing advice to the Santiestebans and their friends and associates about how to avoid, deflect, frustrate, and obstruct those MDPD investigations and by providing confidential MDPD information about suspected grow houses operated by other marijuana growers, so the Santiestebans and their friends and associates could rob those grow houses of their marijuana plants. The extortion count of the indictment charges that Officer Silva obtained money from Santiesteban family members, “under color of official right.” It specifies that Officer Silva received $1500 cash on January 5, 2011, in Miami-Dade County for “maintaining his silence and not disclosing to any law enforcement authorities all that he knew about the illegal, criminal activities of the Santiesteban family members.” U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer stated, “We are especially saddened when a public servant misuses his position of trust to engage in criminal conduct. Mr. Silva’s criminal conduct not only undermined the trust of this community, but also undermined the trust of the officers who served by his side. Today’s indictment sends a message to all public officials who commit crime that they are not above the law and that they will be brought to justice.” “Mr. Silva’s actions undermines the public’s trust in law enforcement, as well as betrays the officers and agents who worked by his side” said Special Agent in Charge George L. Piro of the FBI’s Miami Division. “Silva must now face the consequences of his actions in large part due to the dedication and commitment of the Miami Dade Police Department and the FBI.” Director J.D. Patterson stated, “The community’s trust is vital to us and make no mistake, the Miami-Dade Police Department remains committed in seeking out, identifying, and ridding itself of individuals who violate that trust. This violation of trust tarnishes the badge of every hard-working officer who risks his/her life daily to protect this community. We appreciate the partnership and support of our federal partners during this sensitive investigation.” If convicted, Officer Silva faces a minimum mandatory sentence of 10 years in prison up to life in prison on the aiding and abetting a conspiracy count and up to 20 years in prison on the extortion count. An indictment is only an accusation and each defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of FBI and MDPD. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Michael P. Sullivan and Andy Camacho. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida at www.flsd.uscourts.gov or on http://pacer.flsd.uscourts.gov.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—An indictment was unsealed today charging six members of the Philadelphia Police Department’s Narcotics Field Unit (NFU) in a conspiracy to abuse their official positions to rob suspected drug dealers. Thomas Liciardello, Brian Reynolds, Michael Spicer, Perry Betts, Linwood Norman, and John Speiser are charged in a racketeering conspiracy that the indictment alleges included robbery, extortion, kidnapping, and drug dealing. In one alleged incident, a person was removed from his own home and held captive for several days in a hotel room while members of the enterprise threatened him and made threats against his family. Charges include RICO conspiracy, conspiracy to deprive of civil rights, deprivation of civil rights, Hobbs Act robbery, extortion, carrying a firearm during a crime of violence, falsifying records, and possession with intent to distribute cocaine. The alleged conduct occurred between February 2006 and November 2012, while the defendants were working as members of NFU. The charges were announced today by United States Attorney Zane David Memeger, FBI Special Agent-in-Charge Edward Hanko, and Philadelphia Police Commissioner Charles Ramsey. According to the indictment, during searches of suspected drug dealers and their homes, the defendants stole hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash and personal items, including Rolex watches and electronics and, in some incidents, used excessive force such as: leaning one victim over an 18th floor balcony railing in an attempt to obtain information; kicking a victim in the mouth; punching a victim causing damage to his teeth; and hitting a victim in the back of the head with a steel bar. The indictment alleges that the defendants not only stole suspected drug proceeds but also stole cash from safes in the victims’ homes and, in one incident, stole the safe and then made false entries on official Philadelphia Police reports about what was seized. “The reprehensible conduct alleged to have been committed by the six charged officers tarnishes the badge held by the thousands of officers who currently serve—and have previously served—this city with distinction,” said Memeger. “Today’s indictment makes clear that my office will continue to thoroughly investigate credible allegations of police misconduct to bring to justice those officers who disrespect the badge.” “The crimes alleged here are indefensible,” said Hanko. “That many of the victims were drug dealers, not Boy Scouts, is irrelevant. Police officers are sworn to uphold the law—and to do it ‘by the book.’ This corrupt group chose to make their own rules. Now they will have to answer for it.” “It’s never a good feeling when you have to deliver this type of news about members of your department; however, it shows the ongoing efforts of our FBI/Internal Affairs task force to rid the department of individuals who don’t belong in our ranks,” said Ramsey. “These officers don’t represent the majority of this department. The majority of our department was represented in the dedicated police work displayed during the past few days, working endlessly with the community and getting wanted criminals off the street. We will continue to be transparent; we will continue to pursue those involved in corruption, and remove those who don’t belong in this department. We will continue to make strong efforts in developing trusting relationships with every community as we build a safer Philadelphia for our citizens.” According to the indictment, members of the conspiracy engaged in the following acts: -Stole suspected drug proceeds and a safe containing $80,000 from the home of a suspected drug dealer. -Interrogated a suspect by lifting him off his feet and leaning him over a balcony railing on the 18th floor of his apartment house. -Broke into a residence and threatened to shoot the occupant. -Stole approximately $13,000 from a safe in a home that belonged to the parents of a person they suspected of drug dealing. After each incident, the indictment alleges that one of the defendants, most often Liciardello, subsequently authored Philadelphia Police Department reports which falsely stated the amount of the seizure or did not mention the seizure at all. If convicted, each of the defendants faces a maximum possible statutory sentence of life in prison, with the exception of defendant Speiser who is facing up to 40 years. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Philadelphia Police Department and is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Anthony J. Wzorek. An Indictment, Information or Criminal Complaint is an accusation. A defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption LITTLE ROCK—Christopher R. Thyer, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Arkansas, along with David T. Resch, Special Agent in Charge of the Little Rock Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and Colonel Stan Witt, Director of the Arkansas State Police (ASP), announced today that former Arkansas State Police Lieutenant Sedrick L. Reed, age 44, entered a plea of guilty to conspiracy to distribute and to possess with intent to distribute a controlled substance in the August 7, 2013 indictment in United States v. Sedrick L. Reed. The charge stemmed from an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s ArkTrust Public Corruption Task Force with the full cooperation of the Arkansas State Police. The investigation was also referred to as Organized Crime and Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF) operation “Diverted Justice.” “Today, Sedrick L. Reed, a former Arkansas State Police lieutenant, admitted his guilt to a cocaine distribution conspiracy. An investigation of this nature is challenging to conduct. I commend the FBI and the Arkansas State Police for their diligence and cooperation to fully investigate this case even though it was another law enforcement official,” stated Thyer. “Citizens of the Eastern District of Arkansas deserve to know that their law enforcement members are trustworthy law abiding citizens and when they are not, they will be held accountable for their illegal actions. Reed pleaded guilty to participating in a conspiracy to distribute and to possess with intent to distribute controlled substances. The United States dismissed the remaining four counts against the defendant upon acceptance of the guilty plea. Reed faces a potential sentence of not less than 10 years and up to life imprisonment; not less than five years and up to life supervised release; up to a $10 million fine, and a $100 special assessment. Reed also agreed to the forfeiture of bank accounts, real property, firearms, vehicles, and more than $30,000 in cash constituting proceeds of his illegal conduct. At his plea hearing before U.S. District Court Judge Billy Roy Wilson in open court, Reed admitted to participating in a conspiracy to distribute between five and fifteen kilograms of cocaine between 2006 and 2013. Reed admitted that he abused a position of public trust in a manner that significantly facilitated the conspiracy. Reed also admitted to possessing a firearm during the conspiracy. Reed admitted to diverting drugs from a traffic stop and taking drugs from the ASP evidence locker. Reed further admitted that during the course of the conspiracy, Reed profited in excess of $200,000 from the resale of these stolen drugs. The investigation was conducted by the FBI’s ArkTrust Public Corruption Task Force. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Julie Peters and Chris Givens. The remaining defendant in the indictment, Lamont Johnson, is set for trial before Judge Wilson on October 7, 2014. An indictment contains only allegations. A defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption CONCORD, NH—Joseph Cespedes, 37, formerly a police officer in Manchester, New Hampshire, pleaded guilty in United States District Court for the District of New Hampshire to misprision of a felony, announced United States Attorney John P. Kacavas. Under federal law, it is unlawful for anyone who has knowledge of the commission of a federal felony to conceal the crime and withhold information about it from federal authorities. This investigation began in 2011, when the Department of Homeland Security—Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) learned that Cespedes—a Manchester police officer at the time—was associating with an individual in Lawrence, Massachusetts, who was the target of a separate drugrelated investigation. Federal agents also discovered that the targeted drug dealer enlisted Cespedes to run criminal records checks on certain stolen identities to determine whether they were clear of outstanding arrest warrants. Cespedes ran the criminal records checks through unwitting Manchester Police Department dispatchers. When those criminal records checks came back negative, Cespedes sold that information to the drug dealer for $350.00 and a small quantity of cocaine. Rather than report the drug dealer’s activities to the proper authorities, Cespedes affirmatively concealed that felonious conduct. HSI shared the results of its investigation with the FBI, who, in turn, shared it with the Manchester Police Department. Within days, Cespedes preemptively resigned from the Manchester Police Department, ostensibly for reasons unrelated to this investigation. Despite his resignation, the investigation into his activities continued. During a subsequent interview conducted by federal agents and Manchester police, Cespedes admitted his association with the drug dealer and his illegal conduct on the drug dealer’s behalf. United States Attorney John P. Kacavas said, “I want to commend HSI, the FBI and the Manchester Police Department for their joint efforts in bringing this rogue former police officer to justice. His illegal conduct is a betrayal not only to the community he was sworn to serve but also to the officers of the Manchester Police Department with whom he served. His guilty plea today is a testament to the determination of law enforcement and this office to find, deter, and punish criminals regardless of their status or occupation.” “I would like to congratulate my special agents for following the evidence wherever it lead, but I would equally like to commend the Manchester Police Department for their swift and decisive action,” said special agent in charge of HSI Boston, Bruce Foucart. “It’s always difficult when the actions of a single officer stains the badge, honor and integrity of all the other brave men and women who choose to put their lives on the line in order to uphold the law. “ Cespedes faces up to three years in federal prison and a possible fine of $250,000.00. He is scheduled to be sentenced on November 4, 2014. The case was investigated by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security-Homeland Security Investigations, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Manchester Police Department. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Robert Kinsella.
corruption NORFOLK, VA—Kenny E. Toy, 54, the former Afloat Programs Manager at the United States Navy Military Sealift Command, was sentenced today to serve 96 months in prison for receiving bribes. United States Attorney Dana J. Boente of the Eastern District of Virginia, Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, Special Agent in Charge Robert Craig of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS) Mid-Atlantic Field Office, Acting Executive Assistant Director Charles T. May Jr. of the Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS) Atlantic Operations and Special Agent in Charge Royce E. Curtin of the FBI’s Norfolk Field Office made the announcement today after sentencing by United States Chief Judge Rebecca Beach Smith of the Eastern District of Virginia. On Feb. 12, 2014, Toy pleaded guilty to a criminal information charging him with one count of bribery. According to the statement of facts filed with Toy’s plea agreement, Toy was employed as the Afloat Programs Manager in the N6 Command, Control, Communication, and Computer Systems Directorate at the Military Sealift Command, which is the leading provider of transportation for the United States Navy. In approximately November 2004, Toy joined an extensive bribery conspiracy that spanned five years, involved multiple co-conspirators, including two different companies, and resulted in the payment of more than $265,000 in cash bribes, among other things of value, to Toy and to Scott B. Miserendino Sr., a former government contractor who performed work for the Military Sealift Command. At his plea hearing, Toy admitted that he accepted monthly cash bribes of approximately $3,000, as well as a flat screen television and a paid vacation to the Outer Banks in North Carolina, from co-conspirators Dwayne A. Hardman, Roderic J. Smith, Michael P. McPhail, and Adam C. White, all of whom were employed at a government contracting company referred to as Company A in court documents. Toy also admitted that he accepted a $50,000 cash bribe in May 2009 from Hardman and another co-conspirator, Timothy S. Miller, both of whom were employed at a government contracting company referred to as Company B in court documents. In exchange for the bribes, Toy provided favorable treatment to Company A and Company B in connection with Military Sealift Command related business. As part of his guilty plea, Toy also admitted to engaging in a scheme to conceal his criminal activity. Toy admitted to causing more than $88,000 to be paid to Hardman in an attempt to prevent Hardman from reporting the bribery scheme to law enforcement authorities. Toy was also ordered to serve a supervised release term of three years following his prison sentence, and ordered to forfeit $100,000. Earlier this year, four other individuals pleaded guilty in connection with the bribery scheme. On Feb. 18, 2014, Hardman, the co-founder of Company A and Company B, pleaded guilty to providing bribes to Toy and Miserendino. On Feb. 19, 2014, McPhail, a former employee at Company A, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery. On April 4, 2014, White, a former vice president at Company A, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery. On March 5, 2014, Smith, the former president of Company A, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to bribe public officials. On June 23, 2014, United States District Judge Henry Coke Morgan sentenced Smith to 48 months in prison followed by one year of supervised release and ordered him to forfeit $175,000. On May 23, 2014, a grand jury in the Eastern District of Virginia indicted Miserendino and Timothy S. Miller, a businessman whose company sought contracting business from the Military Sealift Command. The indictment charges Miserendino with one count of conspiracy to commit bribery, one count of bribery, one count of conspiracy to commit obstruction of criminal investigations and to commit tampering with a witness, and one count of obstruction of criminal investigations. The indictment charges Miller with one count of conspiracy to commit bribery and two counts of bribery. Trial is set for Sept. 30, 2014, before Chief Judge Rebecca Beach Smith. Charges contained in an indictment are merely allegations, and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law. The case was investigated by the FBI, NCIS and DCIS. The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen W. Haynie of the Eastern District of Virginia and Trial Attorney Emily Rae Woods of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section of the Justice Department. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia at http://www.justice.gov/usao/vae. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia at http://www.vaed.uscourts.gov or on https://pcl.uscourts.gov.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office, and Donnell Young, Acting Special Agent in Charge, Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI), announce that today United States District Judge Cecilia M. Altonaga sentenced Garfield Perry, 67, of North Miami Beach, to 60 months’ imprisonment, to be followed by one year of supervised release. Perry was also ordered to pay a fine of $12,500. Perry previously pled guilty to a one-count information charging him with conspiring to accept bribes in connection with programs receiving federal funds and to commit extortion, all in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371. According to a previously filed stipulation of facts, from at least 2002 through 2009, Perry was the Roadway Lighting Coordinator for the Department of Public Works in Miami-Dade County. In this capacity, Perry was responsible for, among other things, overseeing the maintenance of more than 22,000 street lights in the county’s roadway system. The Information charges that from 2006 through October 2009, Perry accepted bribe payments from a Manufacturer’s Representative totaling approximately $150,000. Perry regularly directed the Manufacturer’s Representative to make the bribe payments by paying down debts owed by Perry, including payments on two home mortgages, one car loan, two home insurance policies, two car insurance policies, and eight credit cards. Perry accepted as bribe payments from the Manufacturer’s Representative, cruise vacations, domestic and international airline tickets, payments for hotels and theater tickets. Perry regularly directed the Manufacturer’s Representative to make bribe payments by issuing checks payable to third parties, and, after the checks were cashed, determined the manner in which the proceeds were to be split. Perry falsely certified to Miami-Dade County that he was not engaged in any outside employment and did not receive any gratuities. In return for the bribe payments, Perry helped to ensure that lighting products used in Public Works’ projects were represented by the Manufacturer’s Representative. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI and IRS-CI. The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeffrey N. Kaplan. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Southern District of Florida at www.flsd.uscourts.gov or on http://pacer.flsd.uscourts.gov.
corruption Preet Bharara, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, announced that former New York City Council Member DANIEL HALLORAN was found guilty in federal court of arranging the bribery of New York City Republican leaders to allow New York State Senator Malcolm Smith, a Democrat, to run as a Republican candidate for New York City Mayor in 2013. In addition, HALLORAN was found guilty of accepting a $15,000 cash bribe in exchange for designating up to $80,000 in New York City funds to a non-profit entity that would allow the money to be embezzled through a no-show job. HALLORAN was convicted in White Plains federal court after a two-month jury trial before U.S. District Judge Kenneth M. Karas. U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara stated: “With today’s verdict of guilty reached by an impartial and independent jury, the clean-up of corruption in New York continues in courtrooms. As the jury unanimously found, Daniel Halloran played a key role in two distinct political corruption schemes: first, for $20,000, Halloran was willing and able to serve as a go- between to deliver bribes to political party officials, and second he also took nearly $25,000 in cash and illegal campaign contributions to steer $80,000 in City Council money to other bribe payers. Dan Halloran was the lone defendant in the trial that just ended in his conviction, but he is unfortunately not alone in a crowded field of New York officials who are willing to sell out their offices for self-enrichment. This Office will continue the vigorous prosecution of political corruption to secure for the people of New York—regardless of party affiliation—what they deserve: the honest labors of their elected representatives. And we will continue to partner with the FBI, whose outstanding investigative work in this case was instrumental to achieving a just result.” According to the Complaint and the Indictment filed in federal court and the evidence presented at trial: HALLORAN was elected to the New York City Council in 2009, representing a district in Queens, New York. While a member of the city council, HALLORAN participated in two overlapping criminal schemes that involved the payment of bribes to obtain official action. First, HALLORAN arranged for $110,000 in cash bribes to be paid to leaders of the Republican Party so that they would allow Smith to run for mayor on the Republican Party’s ballot line. Second, HALLORAN accepted an up-front kickback of $15,000 for designating up to $80,000 of New York City Council discretionary funding to a company he believed was controlled by those who paid him the bribes. The Bribery of Republican Party Leaders From in or about November 2012 until his arrest in April 2013, HALLORAN agreed with Smith, an undercover FBI agent posing as a wealthy real estate developer (the “UC”), and a cooperating witness (“CW”) to bribe New York City Republican Party leaders in exchange for their authorization of Smith to appear as a Republican candidate for New York City Mayor in 2013, even though Smith is a registered Democrat. In furtherance of the scheme, HALLORAN arranged for the UC and the CW to meet Vincent Tabone, the Vice Chairman of the Queens County Republican Party, Joseph Savino, the Chairman of the Bronx County Republican Party, and other party leaders so they could be paid bribes in exchange for supporting Smith’s bid to compete for the Republican nomination. HALLORAN also negotiated the size of bribes that the party leaders required in order to authorize Smith to run on the Republican ballot line. During a meeting with the UC, Tabone accepted a $25,000 cash bribe and agreed to accept another $25,000 after his committee authorized Smith to compete in the Republican primary. Savino similarly accepted a $15,000 cash bribe and agreed to accept another $15,000 after he voted to authorize Smith to compete for the Republican ballot line. In return for his efforts, HALLORAN accepted $15,500 as a down payment on a “broker’s” fee of at least $75,000 and expected to be appointed First Deputy Mayor if Smith was elected mayor. Bribery for City Council Discretionary Funding From in or about August 2012 until his arrest in April 2013, HALLORAN accepted a bribe of $15,000 cash from the UC and the CW in exchange for agreeing to steer up to $80,000 in New York City Council discretionary funding to a consulting company he believed was controlled by the UC and the CW (the “Company”). In furtherance of this scheme, HALLORAN wrote two letters on New York City Council letterhead about this funding, one to civic organizations and the other to the Company. Despite suggesting in these letters that work would be done by the Company to support the allotment of taxpayer money, HALLORAN agreed with the UC and the CW that the Company would provide no services. *** HALLORAN, 42, of Queens, New York, was found guilty of one count of conspiracy, which carries a maximum sentence of five years in prison; two counts of wire fraud, each of which carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison; and two counts of Travel Act bribery, each of which carries a maximum sentence of five years in prison. Each of the counts of conviction also carries a maximum fine of $250,000, or twice the gross gain or loss from the offense. The maximum potential sentence is prescribed by Congress and is provided here for informational purposes only, as any sentencing of the defendant will be determined by the judge. HALLORAN is scheduled to be sentenced by Judge Karas on December 12, 2014, at 2:00 p.m. Mr. Bharara praised the outstanding investigative work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. This case is being handled by the Office’s White Plains Division and Public Corruption Unit. Assistant United States Attorneys Douglas B. Bloom and Justin Anderson are in charge of the prosecution. Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption RICHMOND, VA—A former employee of the Virginia Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control (ABC) pleaded guilty today to stealing over $239,000 in funds that were intended for educational programs to combat underage drinking. Dana J. Boente, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia; Mark R. Herring, Attorney General of Virginia; and Adam S. Lee, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI’s Richmond Field Office, made the announcement after the guilty plea was accepted by U.S. District Court Judge John A. Gibney. Steven Hammond, Jr., 29, of Richmond, Virginia, pleaded guilty to a one-count criminal information charging him with theft from a program receiving federal funds. Hammond faces a maximum of ten years in prison when he is sentenced on Jan. 14, 2015. “Hammond embezzled money that was intended to help save lives and improve public safety by combatting underage drinking,” said U.S. Attorney Boente. “I commend our partners in state and federal law enforcement for their cooperative efforts to unravel this fraud and hold the defendant accountable.” “This is a simple case of greed by someone who abused the public trust for his own benefit,” said Attorney General Mark Herring. “Cooperation between state and federal partners was key to resolving this case, as it so often is. The public should be reassured that the scam was detected, shut down, and the person responsible is being held accountable. We will not allow people like this to defraud taxpayers and undermine the public’s confidence in our hardworking public servants.” According to court documents, Hammond used his position as education coordinator at ABC to divert to himself funds that were intended to combat underage drinking through enforcement and education programs and conferences. Beginning as early as 2009, Hammond began defrauding ABC by having the department write checks of less than $5,000 to various acquaintances he claimed would operate an educational program. The acquaintances would then cash the checks on Hammond’s behalf, usually in exchange for a small return. The investigation revealed Hammond stole more than $239,000 in funds that were intended for the programs to combat underage drinking. When an internal ABC audit in the spring of 2013 discovered Hammond’s scheme, he was placed on leave and additional financial controls were put into place. The case was initially investigated by the Virginia State Police and The Virginia Office of Attorney General, which has authority to prosecute crimes involving the handling of funds by a state agency or the theft of state property. Because the embezzled funds also involved federal grants, the Federal Bureau of Investigation joined the investigation. This case was investigated by the FBI, Virginia State Police and Office of Attorney General. Michael Jagels, Special Assistant U.S. Attorney and Virginia Assistant Attorney General, is prosecuting the case on behalf of the United States. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia or on PACER by searching for Case No. 3:14-cr-227.
corruption NEW ALBANY—Joseph H. Hogsett, United States Attorney, announced the indictment of Daniel N. Rodden, 60, Jeffersonville, today. Rodden was indicted for seven counts of making a false statement and one count of counseling the destruction of evidence in a federal investigation. He will have his initial appearance this afternoon in front of a Magistrate Judge. On May 14, 2013, Rodden, the elected sheriff of Clark County, allegedly provided a prostitute with official law enforcement credentials and an official deputy’s badge of the Clark County Sheriff’s Department so that the prostitute could obtain a government employee rate at a hotel in Louisville, KY. Rodden allegedly met the prostitute at the hotel on May 29 in a bedroom and engaged in a sex act with the prostitute. The Federal Bureau of Investigation (“FBI”) identified Rodden as it was conducting an investigation concerning wire fraud and enticing an individual to travel in interstate commerce to engage in prostitution. FBI agents and Task Force officers interviewed Rodden in May and June of 2014. Over the course of three interviews, Rodden allegedly told FBI agents that he did not give the prostitute government credentials, did not pay to have sexual relations with her, and did not contact her and instruct the prostitute to destroy evidence of their encounter. “Our message has been consistent but bears repeating: if you violate the public trust, our Public Corruption Working Group will find you, will investigate you, and will prosecute you to the fullest extent of the law,” said Hogsett. This investigation is part of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Public Integrity Working Group (“PIWG”), a collaborative effort between federal state and local law enforcement agencies to rid Indian of the “culture of corruption” that too often deprives citizens of proper representation. This prosecution comes as part of a joint effort between the Indiana State Police, the FBI, and the U.S. Attorney’s Office. “FBI investigations seek out truth in the interest of justice and integrity is a bedrock principal of law enforcement. Truth and integrity are essential for those in public office,” said Special Agent in Charge W. Jay Abbott. Anyone who has information to share about public corruption matters is encouraged to contact the Public Integrity Hotline at 317-229-2443. According to Senior Litigation Counsel Bradley Blackington, who is prosecuting the case on behalf of the government, Rodden faces up to 20 years’ imprisonment for counseling the destruction of evidence and five years for each count of making a false statement. An indictment is only a charge and is not evidence of guilt. A defendant is presumed innocent and is entitled to a fair trial at which the government must prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office, Donnell Young, Acting Special Agent in Charge, Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI), and Scott Israel, Sheriff, Broward Sheriff’s Office (BSO), announce that Jeff Alan Poole, 47, of Weston, was sentenced today in Ft. Lauderdale by U.S. District Judge William P. Dimitrouleas to one year and one day in prison, followed by three years of supervised release. Poole was also ordered to pay $22,071.02 in restitution. On May 8, 2014, Poole pled guilty to conspiracy to violate civil rights, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 241. At the time of the offense, the defendant was employed by BSO as a detective. When he entered his guilty plea, the defendant admitted that he utilized his position within BSO unlawfully to arrest the ex-wife of an attorney who was engaged in a child custody dispute with her at the request of BSO Lt. David Benjamin. Poole also agreed at his guilty plea that this request emanated from Scott W. Rothstein, a former attorney who is now serving a 50-year sentence in connection with a Ponzi scheme which he had operated. On July 21, 2014, Benjamin was sentenced to a prison term of five years in connection with the Rothstein case. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI, IRS-CI and BSO. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Lawrence D. LaVecchio, Paul F. Schwartz, and Jeffrey N. Kaplan. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida at www.flsd.uscourts.gov or on http://pacer.flsd.uscourts.gov.
corruption WASHINGTON—A Las Vegas-based former Department of Defense contractor has been extradited from Iraq to the United States to face fraud and conspiracy charges for attempting to bribe U.S. officials in order to secure government contracts for his companies. Metin Atilan, 54, is the first person extradited from Iraq to the United States pursuant to the U.S.-Iraq extradition treaty of 1936. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Carter M. Stewart of the Southern District of Ohio, Special Agent in Charge Kevin Cornelius of the FBI’s Cincinnati Office and Resident Agent in Charge Bret Flinn of the Defense Criminal Investigation Service (DCIS) made the announcement. “This historic extradition from Iraq to the United States is an example of our cooperation with law enforcement worldwide to bring fugitives to justice,” said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. “Atilan’s return to the United States, after more than six years on the run, sends a clear message to fugitives: no matter where in the world you try to hide, we will find you, and we will prosecute you.” “This case is a tremendous example of a successfully organized and cooperative law enforcement effort put forth by the FBI, DCIS, Interpol and the Iraqi government,” said Special Agent in Charge Cornelius. “I commend the work of the FBI’s Legal Attaché Office and the U.S. Embassy Country Team in Iraq. They have garnered a superior level of law enforcement cooperation between the FBI and Iraqi officials. Without their support, this extradition would not have been possible.” Atilan, a dual U.S. and Turkish citizen, is scheduled to appear today before U.S. Magistrate Judge Michael R. Merz of the Southern District of Ohio. Atilan was charged by indictment on June 10, 2008, with conspiracy to engage in contract fraud, conspiracy to engage in wire fraud, and wire fraud. According to court documents, Atilan is President and Chief Executive Officer of PMA Services, Ltd. of Las Vegas and Kayteks Ltd. of Adna, Turkey. In 2006 through 2008, Atilan offered bribes and kickbacks in order to secure contracts for businesses he owned in connection with services and construction associated with U.S. military operations in Iraq. Some of the Defense Department contracting officials who Atilan is accused of trying to bribe were stationed in Dayton at the time. Atilan was first arrested in Las Vegas on May 23, 2008. Atilan was placed on electronic monitoring pending his formal hearing before a federal judge in Dayton, Ohio. On June 15, 2008, Atilan allegedly violated the terms of his pretrial release by cutting off his electronic bracelet and fleeing the country. The government sought his extradition, and Atilan arrived in Dayton, Ohio on July 27, 2014. An indictment is merely an accusation, and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law. This case was investigated by the FBI and DCIS. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Dwight Keller of the Southern District of Ohio with assistance from Trial Attorney Dan E. Stigall of the Criminal Division’s Office of International Affairs and Department of Justice Attaché Ellen Endrizzi. The Criminal Division’s Office of International Affairs also provided assistance. Follow the FBI’s Cincinnati Field Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s Cincinnati Field Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption WASHINGTON—Brian Prokes, 28, a former office manager in the U.S. House of Representatives, pleaded guilty today for causing the House of Representatives to pay more than $19,000 in excess salary and unauthorized travel expenses, announced Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division. According to court documents, Prokes worked as the office manager for a U.S. Congressman. Prokes’s responsibilities included transmitting salary and bonus information to the House of Representatives’ Office of Payroll and Benefits in order to adjust the pay of employees in the Congressman’s office. Prokes admitted that, between April 2012 and March 2013, he submitted unauthorized paperwork to the Office of Payroll and Benefits to pay himself larger salary and bonus than he had been approved to receive. In addition, Prokes admitted that, between February 2012 and December 2012, he charged unauthorized, personal travel expenses for himself and an acquaintance to a government credit card used by the Congressman’s office. The excess salary payments and unauthorized travel expenses amounted to more than $19,000. Prokes, of Atlanta, Georgia, is scheduled to be sentenced on Oct. 14, 2014, before U.S. District Judge Rudolph Contreras in the District of Columbia. This case was investigated by the FBI. This case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Kevin O. Driscoll and Sean F. Mulryne of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section.
corruption A Department of Defense supervisor, the self-described “Godfather” of Camp Pendleton, was sentenced today to two years in prison for accepting over $100,000 in bribes from contractors who sought to win or retain government construction and service contracts at Camp Pendleton worth millions of dollars. Natividad Lara “Nate” Cervantes pleaded guilty in January to bribery and conspiracy to commit bribery of a public official. At today’s hearing, U.S. District Judge Anthony J. Battaglia also ordered Cervantes, who is free on bond, to self-surrender by September 30, 2014, and to forfeit $106,964 in ill-gotten gains. “Nate Cervantes used his considerable influence and popularity at Camp Pendleton to foster a culture of corruption among contractors at the military base,” said U.S. Attorney Laura Duffy. “This scandal has undermined public confidence in the fairness of the system. Hopefully, today’s sentence will restore some of that confidence. We will investigate and expose corruption wherever it occurs in the U.S. military.” FBI Special Agent in Charge Daphne Hearn commented, “When a government official like Mr. Cervantes violates his oath to protect and serve the citizens of this nation, it undermines the public’s trust. When that happens, the FBI will aggressively pursue people like Mr. Cervantes to root out corruption at all levels of government and restore that trust. This case like many of our investigations was initiated based upon a call from the public to the FBI and shows what can happen when the public joins with law enforcement to fight crime. The FBI encourages the public to report allegations of public corruption to our hotline at (877) NO-BRIBE. “ “Today’s sentencing is a reminder that individuals who scheme to defraud the U.S. Government and violate the public’s trust will be brought to justice,” said Inspector General Peggy E. Gustafson. “The actions of Natividad Cervantes and his conspirators grossly undermine the honest work being done every day by Federal employees and government contractors. I want to thank the U.S. Attorney’s Office for its dedicated leadership and professionalism in pursuit of justice served today.” Special Agent in Charge Chris Hendrickson of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS) Western Field Office commented, “Cases such are this are not motivated by need, or other difficult personal circumstances; they are products of simple greed. We are committed to aggressively pursuing those who abuse the public trust and ultimately undermine the efforts of the Department of Defense to support our warfighters.” “Failure to play by the rules will land you in prison,” said Erick Martinez, Special Agent in Charge of IRS Criminal Investigation. “Today’s sentencing supports IRS Criminal Investigation’s commitment to bring to justice to those individuals who seek to illegally enrich themselves through the improper awarding of government contracts.” Bribery at Camp Pendleton When he entered his guilty plea in January, Cervantes admitted using his position at Camp Pendleton to solicit bribes from construction companies seeking to do business on the base, including codefendant Hugo Hernandez Alonso’s company, Hugo Alonso, Inc. (HAI), and codefendant Bayani Yabut Abueg, Jr.’s company, MBR Associates, Inc. (MBRA). From about 2008 until March 2013, Cervantes served at Camp Pendleton as the Supervisor of the Construction and Service Contracts Inspection Branch, Facilities Support Contract Division. During that time Cervantes used his position supervising construction and service contracts to solicit Alonso and Abueg for bribes from their companies, HAI or MBRA. In return for helping to steer contracts to HAI and MBRA, Cervantes received cash payments from Alonso and Abueg and extensive free construction work on his personal condominium. Alonso, Abueg, and their respective companies were all sentenced last month. As an example, Cervantes admitted that in about 2008 he agreed to accept a $25,000 bribe to assist Alonso and HAI in obtaining a $3.5 million government contract to install flooring at Camp Pendleton. In arranging for the bribe payment, Cervantes, through a third-party conduit, requested that Alonso “have the 25 package” (code for the $25,000 bribe) available on September 5, 2008. On that same day, Alonso provided the $25,000 to the third party conduit for delivery to Cervantes. Cervantes admitted that HAI paid Cervantes a total of at least $119,000 in bribes between 2008 and 2011. The bribes to Cervantes were not limited to just HAI. Cervantes admitted to exchanging a bribe in 2011 related to the awarding of a $3 million contract at Camp Pendleton to Abueg’s company, MBRA. Further, Cervantes admitted that on March 26, 2013, he met with a cooperating witness, who agreed to pay Cervantes a $40,000 bribe in exchange for assistance in obtaining a new $4 million contract at Camp Pendleton. The bribe was to be structured over a number of payments. The first payment was scheduled for March 28, 2013, with the balance of the bribe to be paid after the contract was awarded. On March 28, 2013, the cooperating witness met with Cervantes at a local business on Miramar Road in San Diego, California, to make the first payment that was discussed earlier in the week. During this meeting, Cervantes discussed, among other things, the payment schedule and the source of funds for the bribe payments. At the end of the meeting, the cooperating witness handed Cervantes an envelope containing $10,000 cash. At that point, FBI agents arrested Cervantes. The public is encouraged to report possible public corruption criminal activity by calling the FBI’s public corruption/border corruption hotline at (877) NO-BRIBE or (877) 662-7423, or by calling the Department of Defense’s hotline at (800) 424-9098 or e-mailing hotline@dodig.mil. DEFENDANTS Case Number: 13cr1345-AJB Natividad Lara Cervantes Age: 64 San Diego, CA SUMMARY OF CHARGES Title 18, United States Code, Section 201(b)(2)—Bribery of public official Maximum penalties: 15 years’ imprisonment, $250,000 fine, or three times the monetary equivalent of the bribe Title 18, United States Code, Section 371 – Conspiracy to commit bribery of public official Maximum penalties: five years’ imprisonment, $250,000 fine, or twice the gross amount of defendant’s pecuniary gain from the offense AGENCIES Federal Bureau of Investigation Naval Criminal Investigative Service Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation Department of Defense Criminal Investigative Service General Services Administration, Office of Inspector General Small Business Administration, Office of Inspector General
corruption DALLAS—A federal grand jury has returned a 13-count indictment charging a long-time Dallas County elected official and three of his associates with various alleged felony offenses stemming from their involvement in conspiracies involving bribes, announced Sarah R. Saldaña, U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Texas; Diego Rodriguez, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Dallas; and Kelly Carpenter, Assistant Special Agent in Charge, Dallas IRS Criminal Investigation. The indictment, returned on Wednesday of this week and unsealed this morning, charges John Wiley Price, 64, Kathy Louise Nealy, 61, Dapheny Elaine Fain, 52, and Christian Lloyd Campbell, 44, with various felony counts of conspiracy, tax violations and false statements. “The indictment unsealed today alleges that for more than a decade, in a shocking betrayal of public trust, Commissioner Price sold his office on the Dallas County Commissioners Court in exchange for a steady stream of bribes. While the vast majority of public officials are honest and maintain high ethical standards, it is unfortunate that some, as alleged in this indictment, choose to serve themselves,” said U.S. Attorney Saldaña. “I thank the hardworking men and women of the FBI and IRS Criminal Investigation who have spent countless hours, indeed years, investigating this case, dissecting his and others’ alleged schemes. Abuse of the public trust cannot and will not be tolerated.” “The FBI’s top criminal program priority is investigating allegations of public corruption,” said Special Agent in Charge Rodriguez. “The defendants’ alleged actions were designed for personal financial gain at the expense of their constituents and the federal government. These types of actions constitute a breach of the public’s trust, erode confidence in government, and cost taxpayers money and resources.” “Today’s indictment is a reminder that public officials and private industry who scheme to defraud the U.S. Government and violate the public’s trust will be brought to justice,” said Assistant Special Agent in Charge Carpenter. “Bribery, mail fraud and tax fraud will not be tolerated. IRS Criminal Investigation will continue to work with the U.S. Attorney’s Office and FBI to investigate corrupt behavior wherever we find it.” According to the indictment, from January 2001 through June 27, 2011, Commissioner Price allegedly accepted more than $950,000 in cash, cars and land from Kathy Nealy, a Dallas lobbyist, in exchange for using his influence and position on the Commissioners Court to act favorably on behalf of Ms. Nealy’s clients and those of Christian Campbell, another consultant in Dallas. These financial benefits, averaging between $5,000 and $10,000 per month, were never disclosed on the Commissioner’s tax returns or on state-mandated Financial Disclosure Statements that he signed under oath and filed with the County Clerk for public inspection. Not only did Commissioner Price hide these bribery benefits from the public and the IRS, but he also earned income from other businesses that he kept secret, including a business, Man Male Sales (MMS), operated by Dapheny Fain, his chief of staff. All told, Commissioner Price allegedly took in more than $1.1 million that he did not report, filing false and fraudulent income tax returns for 2007, 2008 and 2009. While Ms. Nealy was paying bribes to Commissioner Price, she actively evaded paying more than $600,000 in income taxes that she admitted owing. The indictment also alleges that Ms. Fain made false statements to special agents with the FBI regarding Commissioner Price’s involvement in MMS. According to the indictment, Ms. Nealy’s business clients were vendors seeking contracts with Dallas County and businesses pursuing matters on which Commissioner Price voted in Commissioners Court. It alleges that Ms. Nealy arranged meetings, dinners, etc. with Commissioner Price for her corporate clients who had business in front of the Commissioners Court, and many of those meetings occurred during periods when contact with elected officials and other county employees was prohibited because the selection process for bids on county contracts was in progress. Commissioner Price sponsored and advocated Ms. Nealy’s clients’ interests, and he voted on these matters in a matter that benefitted them. In return, the indictment alleges, Ms. Nealy provided Commissioner Price with a stream of benefits, in the form of money, cars, and land, totaling approximately $950,000. Specifically, Price and Nealy are each charged with one count of conspiracy to commit bribery concerning a local government receiving federal benefits; one count of conspiracy to defraud the IRS, and six counts of deprivation of honest services by mail fraud. In addition, Price is charged with three counts of subscribing to a false and fraudulent U.S. Individual Income Tax Return. Nealy is also charged with one count of attempting to evade or defeat payment of tax. Fain is charged with one count of conspiracy to defraud the IRS and one count of making a false statement. Campbell is charged with one count of conspiracy to commit bribery concerning a local government receiving federal benefits. An indictment is merely an accusation and a defendant is presumed innocent unless proven guilty in a court of law. However, the penalties upon conviction are: 20 years in federal prison and a $250,000 fine for each count of deprivation of honest services by mail fraud and aiding and abetting; five years in federal prison and a $250,000 fine for each count of conspiracy to commit bribery concerning a local government receiving federal benefits, conspiracy to defraud the IRS, attempting to evade or defeat payment of tax, and making a false statement; and three years in federal prison and a $250,000 fine for subscribing to a false and fraudulent U.S. individual income tax return. The FBI and IRS-Criminal Investigation are conducting this ongoing investigation. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Walt Junker, Katherine Miller, Jay Dewald and Chad Meacham are prosecuting.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—A federal jury today delivered its verdicts against seven defendants charged in a ticket fixing conspiracy involving the former Philadelphia Traffic Court. Jurors found three defendants—Michael Lowry, Robert Mulgrew, and Thomasine Tynes—guilty of committing perjury before the federal grand jury and defendant Willie Singletary guilty of lying to the FBI when questioned about ticket fixing at Traffic Court. Three defendants—Michael Sullivan, Robert Moy, and Mark A. Bruno—were found not guilty. Co-defendants H. Warren Hogeland, Kenneth Miller, Fortunato Perri, William Hird, and Henry P. Alfano previously pleaded guilty. “We respect the jury’s verdict in this case and will continue our efforts to root out corruption in Philadelphia and this district,” said United States Attorney Zane David Memeger. “We are pleased that the jury convicted these former judges of the serious offenses of lying under oath and lying to the FBI.” Sentencing hearings were not scheduled. Each defendant faces a maximum possible statutory sentence of not more than five years and/or a fine. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Denise S. Wolf and Anthony J. Wzorek.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, and George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office, announce the sentencing of William Garcia, 39, of Miami, a former Sweetwater Police Department detective, for his role in a credit card fraud and aggravated identity theft scheme. On April 21, 2014, a jury in federal court found Garcia guilty of twelve counts of the fifteen count indictment. Specifically, the defendant was found guilty of: conspiring to produce, use, or traffic in one or more counterfeit access devices, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371; use of a counterfeit access device, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1029(a)(1); and ten counts of aggravated identity theft, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1028A(a)(1). United States District Judge Federico A. Moreno sentenced Garcia to a term of 112 months’ imprisonment, to be followed by one year of supervised release. Garcia was also ordered to pay approximately $13,000.00 in restitution. During trial, the United States presented evidence documenting Garcia’s improper friendship with a former confidential source. The confidential source, a convicted felon, would provide Garcia and another former South Miami Detective, Richard Munoz, with counterfeit credit cards. During the trial, the source, Munoz, and others testified about Garcia’s possession and use of those cards during shopping trips to the Dolphin and Florida City shopping malls in late 2010 and early 2011. During a meeting recorded by an FBI source, Garcia was recorded providing his own personal credit card for use in stealing account numbers and manufacturing counterfeit cards. After the source started cooperating in June 2011, Garcia was caught on videotape bringing eight counterfeit credit cards to the confidential sources’ residence. During that and other recorded meetings, Garcia explained that he had taken the counterfeit cards from work and that he would share them with the confidential source. During the next two weeks, Garcia was again caught on tape discussing his use of the cards at restaurants, movies, and the Dolphin Mall. Garcia’s presence during the transactions was further documented through use of phone records, placing Garcia’s cellular telephone in the area of each transaction at the time it occurred. U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer stated, “William Garcia violated his oath as a police officer and misused his position to victimize the civilians he was sworn to protect. Mr. Garcia’s participation in these crimes betrayed not only the public trust, but also his fellow officers’ daily sacrifices as they work tirelessly to protect this community. Today’s sentence sends a strong message that we expect and deserve more from our public servants. I congratulate the hard work of the FBI that led to this successful prosecution.” “The FBI’s Miami Area Corruption Task Force was assembled to ensure public officials are brought to justice if they betray the community’s trust,” said George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Miami. “In this case, the Task Force along with the assistance of the Sweetwater Police Department worked diligently to ensure justice was served.” Mr. Ferrer commended the outstanding investigative efforts of the FBI. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Anthony Lacosta and Sarah Schall. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at http://www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Southern District of Florida at http://www.flsd.uscourts.gov or on http://pacer.flsd.uscourts.gov.
corruption SPRINGFIELD, MO—Tammy Dickinson, United States Attorney for the Western District of Missouri, announced that the former sheriff of St. Clair County, Mo., was indicted by a federal grand jury today for stealing property recovered in criminal cases and for selling a stolen firearm. “Today’s indictment alleges that the former sheriff treated the county’s evidence room like his personal tool shed, cheating the taxpayers and citizens of St. Clair County,” Dickinson said. “No one is above the law. When the county’s chief law enforcement officer violates the very law he took an oath to uphold, he will be held accountable.” Ronald E. Snodgrass, 46, of El Dorado, Mo., was charged in a three-count indictment returned by a federal grand jury in Springfield, Mo. Snodgrass served three terms as the elected sheriff in St. Clair County, from Jan. 1, 2001, through Dec. 31, 2012. He lost his bid for reelection in 2012. Under state law, any property seized by the sheriff’s department must be disposed of by a court order that authorizes the return of the property to a claimant. If property is unclaimed, it must be disposed of through a public sale (with the proceeds deposited in the county treasury), destroyed, or forfeited to the state. State law did not authorize Snodgrass to convert unclaimed property seized in criminal cases to his own personal use. Today’s indictment charges Snodgrass with two counts of theft concerning programs that receive federal funds. (During Snodgrass’s tenure as sheriff, the U.S. Marshals Service contracted with St. Clair County to house federal inmates at the St. Clair County Jail.) Snodgrass allegedly stole a John Deere zero turn mower on Sept. 8, 2009. Snodgrass allegedly stole a 2009 Polaris Ranger UTV on Sept. 29, 2012. The federal indictment also charges Snodgrass with selling a stolen firearm. Between Aug. 7, 2012, and Dec. 31, 2012, Snodgrass allegedly sold a Remington .22-caliber rifle that he knew had been stolen. The indictment also contains a forfeiture allegation, which would require Snodgrass to forfeit to the government any property derived from the proceeds of the alleged offenses, including a money judgment of $16,000. Dickinson cautioned that the charges contained in this indictment are simply accusations, and not evidence of guilt. Evidence supporting the charges must be presented to a federal trial jury, whose duty is to determine guilt or innocence. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Abram McGull, II. It was investigated by the FBI, the Missouri State Highway Patrol and the St. Clair, Mo., Sheriff’s Department.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office, Donnell Young, Acting Special Agent in Charge, Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI), and Scott Israel, Sheriff, Broward County Sheriff’s Office (BSO), announce that David Benjamin, 48, of Boca Raton, was sentenced today in Ft. Lauderdale by U.S. District Judge James I. Cohn to five years in prison, to be followed by three years of supervised release. Benjamin was also ordered to pay $22,071.00 in restitution for conspiring to commit crimes in connection with the operation of the former Fort Lauderdale law firm of Rothstein, Rosenfeldt and Adler, P.A. (RRA). On May 13, 2014, Benjamin pled guilty to conspiracy to commit extortion and to violate civil rights, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371. At the time of the offense, Benjamin was a Lieutenant and served as Executive Officer to then Sheriff Al Lamberti. When he entered his guilty plea, the defendant admitted that he utilized his position within BSO unlawfully to further the interests of RRA, its Chairman and CEO, Scott W. Rothstein, and other persons associated with Rothstein. Specifically, Benjamin admitted that he received approximately $185,000 in money and other things of value from Rothstein and RRA in return for providing his assistance when needed, including arranging with another deputy to arrest the ex-wife of an attorney who was engaged in a child custody dispute with her, arranging to use force and threats of force against the boyfriend of an escort who was threatening to expose the illicit relationship which existed between the escort and one of the partners at RRA, and assisting Rothstein in loading cash and jewelry onto a private airplane which was used by Rothstein to flee to Morocco on October 27, 2009, as the Ponzi scheme being conducted through RRA was beginning to unravel. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI, IRS-CI and BSO. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Lawrence D. LaVecchio, Paul F. Schwartz, and Jeffrey N. Kaplan. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls.
corruption LOS ANGELES—The former mayor of the City of Rosemead was sentenced today to 21 months in federal prison after pleading guilty to attempted witness tampering and making false statements to FBI agents conducting a corruption investigation. John Tran, 38, of Rosemead, was sentenced this morning by United States District Judge Dale S. Fischer. Tran pleaded guilty late last year to the witness tampering and false statement charges. In a plea agreement filed in United States District Court, Tran acknowledged that he received approximately $38,000 in payments from a developer in exchange for Tran’s promise to help her obtain permits for a project. The witness tampering resulted from Tran asking the developer to lie to a federal grand jury by denying that he had recently met with Tran or paid Tran any money. Tran made false statements to the FBI in 2011 when special agents went to his home to conduct an interview and Tran denied receiving anything but campaign contributions from the developer. Tran was elected to the Rosemead City Council in 2005 and was mayor of Rosemead from 2007 to 2009. In addition to the prison term, Judge Fischer ordered Tran to pay $38,000 in restitution, most of which has already been recovered by the FBI. The case against Tran was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—Dorian Parsley, 44, of Philadelphia, pleaded guilty today to conspiracy, solicitation of a bribe, and honest services fraud in connection with a scheme to give an unfair advantage to certain tow truck operators. Between February 2011 and December 2013, Parsley, a former Philadelphia Police Department (“PPD”) dispatcher, used her position to provide confidential police information, such as locations of automobile accidents, locations of PPD squad cars, and vehicle registration information, to tow truck operators who provided her with cash bribe payments. She typically received $100-$200 per week for the information. She agreed that she received $35,400 in bribes. Parsley would surreptitiously text information that came into PPD dispatch from her personal cellphone directly to those tow truck operators. For an additional cash fee, Parsley agreed to provide certain tow truck operators with the name and address of a vehicle owner by running the license plate and vehicle registration through the PPD dispatch computer. PPD computers automatically access the National Crime Information Center (“NCIC”) located in West Virginia when a vehicle registration was inputted, thereby affecting an interstate wire. Co-defendant William Cheeseman also pleaded guilty today to one count of bribery for paying Parsley cash bribes for the information on accident locations. He agreed that the value of the information he received was $9,000. Parsley faces a potential statutory maximum penalty of 35 years in prison, three years of supervised release, a $750,000 fine, and a $300 special assessment. Cheeseman faces a potential statutory maximum sentence of 10 years in prison, three years of supervised release, a $250,000 fine, and a $100 special assessment. The court scheduled Parsley’s sentencing date on October 21, 2014 and Cheeseman’s on October 24, 2014. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Philadelphia Police Department. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Jennifer Chun Barry.
corruption ALEXANDRIA, VA—Francisco L. Bituin, 58, of Sterling, Virginia, pleaded guilty today to paying bribes to a GSA official in exchange for the official’s assistance in obtaining government contracts for Bituin’s engineering firm. Dana J. Boente, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia; Robert C. Erickson, Jr., Acting Inspector General for the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA); and Valerie Parlave, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office, made the announcement after the plea was accepted by U.S. District Judge Claude M. Hilton. Bituin is the owner of FLBE, Inc., an engineering firm located in Herndon, Virginia, that has received over $30 million in government contracts since 2003. In a statement of facts filed with his plea agreement, Bituin admitted to paying bribes to a GSA employee who was in a position to recommend FLBE for GSA-managed contracts. The bribes included a $3,750 golf club membership and $2,000 in cash passed by the defendant to the GSA employee during lunch at a Tysons Corner, Virginia restaurant. On another occasion, Bituin offered the GSA employee other things of value in exchange for his assistance in obtaining GSA contracts, including access to a retirement home in Las Vegas, the down payment on a home in Virginia, and 5 percent of the equity in FLBE. Bituin faces a maximum penalty of 15 years in prison when he is sentenced on Nov. 7, 2014. This case was investigated by GSA’s Office of the Inspector General and the FBI’s Washington Field Office. Assistant U.S. Attorney Paul J. Nathanson is prosecuting the case. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia. Related court documents and information may be found on the website of the District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia or on PACER by searching for Case No. 1:14-cr-236.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office, David W. Bourne, Special Agent in Charge, U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Office of Criminal Investigations, Miami Field Office, and Bryan Kummerlen, Chief, West Palm Beach Police Department, announce that Dewitt McDonald, 46, of Wellington, was sentenced today in Ft. Lauderdale by United States District Judge James I. Cohn to five years in prison, to be followed by three years of supervised release. McDonald was also ordered to pay $25,810.00 in restitution. The defendant pled guilty on April 30, 2014, to carrying a firearm during and in relation to a drug trafficking crime, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 924(c)(1)(A). At the time of this offense, the defendant was a police officer with the West Palm Beach Police Department. When he entered his guilty plea, the defendant admitted that, while he was employed as a police officer, the defendant operated two businesses: Prime Performance Wellness Centers, Inc., located in Lake Worth, and Prime Health and Rejuvenation Clinic, located in Wellington, through which he unlawfully distributed anabolic steroids and other prescription drugs. The defendant further admitted that, on March 5, 2013, while on duty and carrying his Smith & Wesson MP40 pistol, the defendant made a delivery of these drugs to someone in Palm Beach County. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI and FDA-Office of Criminal Investigations. Mr. Ferrer also thanked the West Palm Beach Police Department for their cooperation and assistance in this matter. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Lawrence D. LaVecchio, Paul F. Schwartz and Jeffrey N. Kaplan. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at http://www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls. 
corruption NEW ORLEANS—U.S. Attorney Kenneth Allen Polite, Jr. announced today that RAFAEL DOBARD, age 39, and QUINCY JONES, age 33, both former New Orleans Police Department (“NOPD”) narcotics detectives, were sentenced by U.S. District Court Judge Nannette Jolivette Brown. DOBARD and JONES were each sentenced to eighteen months’ incarceration to be followed by three years of supervised release. Additionally, DOBARD and JONES were ordered to pay restitution to the City of New Orleans in the amount of $18,484.44 and $19,064.25, respectively. On February 14, 2014, DOBARD and JONES pled guilty to conspiracy to commit theft from programs receiving federal funds and conspiracy to commit wire fraud. According to court documents, both defendants admitted that they conspired to enrich themselves and others by obtaining NOPD confidential informant funds by fraud and by corruptly making payments to other officers in their unit. They also admitted that they conspired to commit wire fraud by submitting NOPD timesheets that indicated they were working on duty for the NOPD when, in fact, they were working at non-NOPD detail jobs. “The U.S. Attorney’s Office is committed to ensuring that no one is above the law,” stated U.S. Attorney Polite. “These officers, both of whom swore to uphold and enforce our laws, instead broke the law by stealing public funds.” “Few breaches of the public trust rival law enforcement corruption so the FBI and the NOPD’s Public Integrity Bureau will continue to ensure that all such matters receive our utmost attention with extensive investigative resources to match,” stated Michael Anderson, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation, New Orleans Field Division. The case was investigated jointly by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the NOPD Public Integrity Bureau. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Mark A. Miller and Special Assistant United States Attorney Michael B. Redmann, who is detailed to the U.S. Attorney’s Office from the Orleans Parish District Attorney’s Office.
corruption ALBUQUERQUE—Lucas Segura, 22, of Los Lunas, N.M., made his initial appearance in federal court in Albuquerque, N.M., this morning on an indictment charging him with a heroin trafficking offense. Segura remains custody pending a detention hearing scheduled for July 18, 2014. The indictment alleges that Segura unlawfully possessed heroin with intent to distribute in Bernalillo County, N.M., on April 1, 2014. At the time of the offense charged, Segura was a corrections officer at the Bernalillo County Metropolitan Detention Center (MDC). According to state court filings, Segura was arrested on April 1, 2014, on related state charges of trafficking controlled substances, bringing contraband into a jail, and conspiracy. Segura was on conditions of release from the state charges when he surrendered himself to the FBI earlier today. If convicted on the offense charged in the federal indictment, Segura faces a maximum statutory penalty of twenty years in federal prison. Charges in indictments are merely accusations and defendants are presumed innocent unless found guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. This case was investigated by the Albuquerque office of the FBI, the Bernalillo County Sheriff’s Office, and MDC’s Threat Security Group with assistance from the 2nd Judicial District Attorney’s Office, and is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Reeve L. Swainston.
corruption WAYCROSS, GA—Randy Strickland, 55, a former Pierce County, Georgia Deputy Sheriff, was sentenced yesterday by United States District Court Judge William T. Moore, Jr. to 93 months in federal prison for providing protection for drug traffickers. According to evidence presented during Strickland’s guilty plea and sentencing hearings, Strickland agreed to act as “security” for individuals he believed were dealing meth, by acting as the lookout. Strickland’s drug activities occurred while he was in uniform and armed, and while he was driving his police vehicle. After receiving information about Strickland’s apparent criminal activities, Pierce County Sheriff Ramsey Bennett immediately requested federal law enforcement assistance. As a result, Strickland’s last “protection detail” was for a confidential informant and under the watchful eyes of several federal agents. On that occasion, Strickland agreed to act as the lookout for who he believed to a drug dealer selling ounces of methamphetamine. Shortly after receiving his charged fee of $100, which at Strickland’s direction was placed in a potato chip bag on the side of a road, Strickland was arrested by federal authorities. United States Attorney Edward Tarver stated, “Instead of protecting citizens, Strickland chose to serve drug dealers. His actions tarnished the badge and the community’s trust. While the public should be reminded that the vast majority of law enforcement officers live by their oaths, the public should also know that the U.S. Attorney’s Office will prosecute criminals dressed in police clothing.” ATF Special Agent in Charge Christopher Shaefer said, “The criminal conduct of former Pierce County Deputy Sheriff Randy Strickland is unconscionable and unthinkable for those serving faithfully within the criminal justice community. Today’s sentencing of Strickland will serve as notice to others that this conduct will not be tolerated and ATF will use all resources to reduce violent crime.” “Mr. Strickland compromised his integrity and the oath he took to uphold Georgia laws and protect members of society, not to mention putting other law enforcement officers in danger, through his corrupt scheme to provide security for drug traffickers,” said Ryan L. Spradlin, acting special agent in charge of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s (ICE) Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) Atlanta. “Thanks to the hard work of HSI special agents and our partners at the ATF, FBI, Pierce County Sheriff’s Office, and the U.S. Attorney’s Office, Strickland is being held accountable for this betrayal of the public’s trust.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated: “This case, while centering on a corrupt law enforcement officer, illustrates how the law enforcement community responds swiftly to such breaches of the public trust. The FBI will continue to work with those law enforcement partners in ensuring that the public’s trust in the criminal justice system is well founded and that those officers violating their oaths of office are identified and held accountable.” Pierce County Sheriff Ramsey Bennett commented, “I’m pleased that justice was served and Mr. Strickland will pay his debt to society for the crimes he committed and his breach of trust to the people he swore to serve.” This case was investigated by ATF, HSI, FBI and local law enforcement. Assistant United States Attorneys Greg Gilluly and Tania Groover prosecuted the case on behalf of the United States. For additional information, please contact First Assistant United states Attorney James D. Durham at (912) 201-2547.
corruption The Norfolk FBI will hold a free seminar on public corruption on Tuesday, July 22, 2014, from 2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. at Dominion Enterprises at 150 Granby Street in Norfolk, Virginia 23510. Public corruption poses a fundamental threat to our national security and way of life. It impacts everything from how well our borders are secured and our neighborhoods protected, and it takes a significant toll on our pocketbooks, wasting billions in tax dollars every year. The FBI is singularly situated to combat this corruption, with the skills and capabilities to run complex undercover operations and surveillance. To register for this free event, please e-mail vanessa.torres@ic.fbi.gov.
corruption MEMPHIS, TN—Jerry Dennis, 68, of Horn Lake, MS, pled guilty today to a one-count information charging conspiracy to launder approximately $250,000 in bribe payments received from Afghan contractors in Afghanistan, announced Assistant Attorney General Leslie Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and United States Attorney for the Western District of Tennessee Edward L. Stanton III. According to facts revealed in the criminal information and during the hearing, Jimmy Dennis, a former First Sergeant with the United States Army, was assigned to the Humanitarian Aid Yard at Bagram Air Field, Afghanistan. He served as a paying agent from March 2008 until his return to his home base at Fort Campbell, KY. Together with a Project Purchasing Officer (PPO), Jimmy Dennis worked as a team to procure supplies from local Afghan contractors. These supplies were used as part of the Commander’s Emergency Response Program for urgent humanitarian relief requirements in Afghanistan. Soon after Jimmy Dennis began working as a paying agent, an Afghan interpreter offered him a $10,000 bribe/kickback to accept certain Afghan contractors onto the list of eligible contractors. Jimmy Dennis accepted the money and later accepted bribe payments from a second interpreter to allow additional vendors onto the list of eligible contractors. Jimmy Dennis estimated that he personally received about $250,000 in bribes. Jimmy Dennis smuggled the money home through the U.S. Mail through a variety of means including sending home a “jingle truck” (colorfully decorated trucks or buses in Afghanistan and Pakistan) to his father, Jerry Dennis. Jimmy Dennis hid the money in the rear compartment of the toy truck. Jimmy Dennis also shipped a hope chest containing approximately $100,000 in cash in a concealed compartment to Jerry Dennis. Jerry Dennis would then deposit the funds received from Jimmy Dennis into his personal bank account. Jerry Dennis stopped depositing the money into his bank account after being questioned by bank authorities regarding his cash deposits. Jimmy Dennis then met with James Pittman while on leave and asked if he could send the money to Pittman to launder through his landscaping company. Pittman agreed and began sending “salary” checks to Jimmy Dennis after Jimmy Dennis provided Pittman with jingle trucks containing hidden cash and Jerry Dennis provided $20,000 remaining from the money he had received. Jerry and Jimmy Dennis used the money for a number of personal expenses including paying vehicle loans and buying motorcycles. James Pittman and Jimmy Dennis pled guilty to the same charge, Pittman on May 15, 2014 before U.S. Magistrate Judge William B. Carter of the Eastern District of Tennessee and Jimmy Dennis on May 28, 2014 before U.S. District Judge Samuel H. Mays, Jr. Jerry Dennis faces a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison, a $500,000 fine, restitution, forfeiture, and five years of supervised release. Sentencing is scheduled for November 20, 2014 at 2:00 p.m. before U.S. District Judge Samuel H. Mays, Jr. This case was investigated by the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, the FBI, the Army Criminal Investigative Division, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, and the Air Force Office of Special Investigation. The prosecution is being handled by Trial Attorney Daniel Butler of the Criminal Division of the Department of Justice and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Frederick Godwin of the Western District of Tennessee and James Brooks of the Eastern District of Tennessee.
corruption DALLAS—Lawrence Hart, 37, was sentenced on Monday by U.S District Judge David C. Godbey to serve 15 months in federal prison and ordered to pay $8,619 in restitution following his guilty plea in April 2014 to felony and misdemeanor offenses stemming from his role as a caseworker for an outreach program managed by the City of Dallas’s Housing Department. Hart must surrender to the Bureau of Prisons in mid-October 2014. U.S. Attorney Sarah R. Saldaña of the Northern District of Texas made today’s announcement. Hart pleaded guilty to one count of witness tampering, one count of making a false statement to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and one count of deprivation of rights under color of law. According to documents filed in the case, in 2012 and 2013, Hart was a caseworker for Project Reconnect, a HUD-funded outreach program managed by the City of Dallas’s Housing Department. Project Reconnect provides reentry case management and community referrals to help non-violent offenders on parole settle back into the Dallas community. One of the main components of Project Reconnect is to provide housing to eligible individuals. As the program was being applied at the time, to be eligible for Project Reconnect, an individual must reside in Dallas, have felony conviction, be 18 years or older, be currently on parole or probation and meet HUD low to moderate income guidelines. Hart admitted that in July 2012, he arranged for “Person A” to sign a lease for an apartment in Carrollton, under the Project Reconnect program, even though Person A did not qualify for the program at that time. The apartment’s rent was $980.00 per month, and Project Reconnect was responsible for $975 of that amount and Person A was responsible for $5.00 per month. Hart admitted that while he worked for the City of Dallas’s Housing Authority, he was in fact the sole occupant of that apartment and Person A never resided there. Hart further admitted that he submitted documentation to HUD reflecting that Person A was the sole occupant. When HUD, the Dallas Police Department (DPD) and the FBI began investigating fraudulent activity related to Project Reconnect, they interviewed Hart about his involvement in Project Reconnect and his potential criminal activity. After that interview, Hart contacted Person A and instructed Person A to lie to a DPD detective and FBI special agent by telling them that Person A lived in the Carrollton apartment. In late 2012, according to the factual resume filed in the case, Hart met “Person B” and fast-tracked Person B through the Project Reconnect program. While Person B was qualified for the program, Hart propositioned her for sex and expedited her placement in an apartment because she agreed to have sex with him. In January 2013, Person B ended her intimate relationship with Hart. Acting under color of law, Hart removed her from the HUD-subsidized apartment, wilfully depriving her of the right, to be free from discrimination in the terms, condition and privileges of rental of a dwelling because of her sex. The DPD, HUD and FBI investigated the case. Assistant U.S. Attorney Errin Martin prosecuted.
corruption CHICAGO—A former North Chicago school board member was sentenced today to 10 years in federal prison for receiving at least $566,000 in kickbacks from three co-defendants who controlled several different transportation companies that received more than $21 million in student bus contracts over nearly a decade. The defendant, GLORIA HARPER, 63, formerly of North Chicago, pleaded guilty last October to one count each of wire fraud and filing a false federal income tax return. Harper admitted that between 2001 and 2010 she schemed to deprive the approximately 4,000-student North Chicago Community Unit School District 187 (NCSD) of her honest services. Harper instigated and orchestrated the fraud scheme with four co-defendants, including Alice Sherrod, the district’s former transportation director. The three co-defendants funneled kickbacks totaling at least $800,000 to Harper and Sherrod and made more than $9.6 million in profits. “This was a serious, serious offense that took advantage of an impoverished school district and the ultimate victims were the school children of North Chicago,” U.S. District Judge Sharon Johnson Coleman said in imposing the sentence today after a hearing that began last week. Judge Coleman ordered Harper to serve her sentence consecutive to a 30-month federal sentence that Harper received in 2012 in Louisiana for defrauding the federal E-Rate program that funds education technology. The judge also ordered Harper to pay approximately $7.2 million in restitution. “The North Chicago School District has one of the highest low-income populations in the state. But rather than looking out for the interests of the district’s taxpayers and the children who depended on the schools for education, Harper selfishly used her position to enrich herself, and then filed false tax returns,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Matthew Getter argued at sentencing. Sherrod, 62, of Berwyn and formerly of Gurnee; Tommie Boddie, 69, of Harvest, Ala., and formerly of Wadsworth; Derrick Eubanks, 50, of Lake Villa; and Barrett White, 55, of Matteson, have also pleaded guilty and are awaiting sentencing. Harper, who was a member of the NCSD board from 1999 to May 2009, and Sherrod, who was District 187’s transportation director from 2001 to July 2010, used their positions to enrich themselves secretly by soliciting and accepting gifts and cash from their three codefendants in exchange for favorable official action regarding student transportation contracts. Initially, Harper and Sherrod received kickbacks of approximately $4,000 to $5,000 a month but, by 2003, they were collecting approximately $20,000 a month. From the late 1990s until mid-2003, the NCSD contracted with various companies to provide student transportation, including T&M Transportation, which was owned in part and controlled by Boddie, and Eubanks Transportation, which was owned in part and controlled by Eubanks. In 2001, Harper and Sherrod met with Boddie and agreed they would arrange for the NCSD to increase the number of students that T&M transported in exchange for kickback payments. In May 2003, Harper suggested to Boddie and Eubanks that they join together to form one company ― Safety First Transportation, Inc., which won the NCSD’s transportation contract in 2003, and Harper, Sherrod, Boddie, and Eubanks agreed that they would split the profits from the contract. After an IRS audit of Safety First in 2006-2007, White, who had been acting as the “bagman” for the kickbacks, began receiving funds from Safety First as both an employee and a contractor, even though he provided little service other than being the bagman. In April 2008, the defendants agreed to set up a new company, Quality Trans, LLC, to replace Safety First and to assume its contracts with the school district. All five agreed to continue splitting profits from Quality Trans, and Boddie, Eubanks and White continued making cash payments to Harper and Sherrod. The sentence was announced by Zachary T. Fardon, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois; Robert J. Holley, Special Agent-in-Charge of the Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and James C. Lee, Special Agent-in-Charge of the Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation Division in Chicago. The North Chicago School District cooperated with the investigation.
corruption Christine King, 42, from Strawberry Point, Iowa, received the prison term after a May 5, 2014, guilty plea to one count of mail fraud. In a plea agreement, King admitted that, from July 2002 through October 2011, while working as the city clerk for the city of Masonville, she routinely issued herself fraudulent payroll and expense reimbursement checks. King further admitted she included fraudulently inflated bank account balances for the city’s bank accounts on reports King provided to the city council and to the Auditor for the State of Iowa in order to prevent anyone from discovering her fraud. At sentencing, the court determined King had defrauded Masonville of $81,524.24. King also agreed she was responsible for an $11,070.57 bill from the Iowa State Auditor to Masonville for an audit of Masonville after King’s fraud was discovered. King was sentenced in Cedar Rapids by United States District Court Chief Judge Linda R. Reade. King was sentenced to twenty-one months’ imprisonment. A special assessment of $100 was imposed and she was ordered to make $82,594.81 in restitution to Masonville and $10,000 in restitution to an insurance company. She must also serve a three-year term of supervised release after the prison term. There is no parole in the federal system. King was released on conditions previously set and is to surrender to the United States Marshal on August 4, 2014. The case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Anthony Morfitt and was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Court file information is available at https://ecf.iand.uscourts.gov/. The case file number is 14-CR-2009.
corruption The United States Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania announced today that Robert F. Evans, Jr., age 38, of Moosic, Pennsylvania, pleaded guilty to a one-count Criminal Information charging that he distributed oxycodone on numerous occasions between August 2012 and July 29, 2013. At the time of the offense, Evans was employed as a police officer with the Hughestown Borough Police Department. At the guilty plea hearing, United States District Court Judge Malachy E. Mannion accepted Evans’ guilty plea after Evans acknowledged distributing approximately 750 oxycodone pills during the scheme; possessing a firearm in connection with the activity; and abusing his position of trust as a police officer which significantly facilitated and concealed the offense. Judge Mannion ordered that a presentence investigation report be compiled in advance of the sentencing. United States Attorney Peter J. Smith stated that the charge is the result of an investigation conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Pennsylvania State Police. Prosecution is assigned to Assistant United States Attorney John Gurganus. A sentence following a guilty plea is imposed by the Judge after consideration of the applicable federal sentencing statutes and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines. In this particular case, the maximum penalty under the federal statute U.S. Department of Justice is 20 years’ imprisonment, a term of supervised release following imprisonment, and a fine. Under the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, the Judge is also required to consider and weigh a number of factors, including the nature, circumstances and seriousness of the offense; the history and characteristics of the defendant; and the need to punish the defendant, protect the public and provide for the defendant’s educational, vocational and medical needs. For these reasons, the statutory maximum penalty for the offense is not an accurate indicator of the potential sentence for a specific defendant.
corruption WASHINGTON—Today, Eduard Rivera-Correa, mayor of the municipality of Río Grande, Puerto Rico, was arrested by FBI agents on charges of bribery, attempted extortion and obstruction of justice, announced Rosa Emilia Rodríguez-Vélez, U.S. Attorney for the District of Puerto Rico. The indictment authorized by a federal grand jury this week charges Rivera-Correa with one count of bribery, one count of attempted extortion and two counts of obstruction of justice. The indictment also charges attorney Alejandro Carrasco with four counts of bribery concerning programs receiving federal funds. According to the indictment, attorney Carrasco and mayor Rivera-Correa, did corruptly solicit, demand, and knowingly accepted and agreed to accept kickbacks from a person known as Contractor A, intending to be influenced and rewarded in connection with different business transactions involving $5,000 or more for construction consulting services. The payments received by the mayor exceeded $39,000, and the payments received by attorney Carrasco exceeded $183,365. Attorney Carrasco provided legal services to the municipalities of Barceloneta, Juncos and Río Grande during this time and obtained kickbacks in exchange for his assistance with securing these contracts. Rivera-Correa is also charged in count six with attempted extortion of political contributions through the sales of political tickets to a dinner. According to the indictment and motion for detention pending trial, Rivera-Correa used his office and economic fear to extort $4,000 from Contractor A. The tickets, as described in the motion for bail pending appeal were presented by Rivera-Correa as the “keys for 2013” or “passes for 2013” and sold in exchange for continued business with the Municipality of Rio Grande. “Dishonest public officials who request illegal payments from contractors as a regular course of business do not serve the interests of their constituents. This alleged breach of public trust will not be tolerated,” said U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodríguez-Vélez. “We will continue to prosecute public officials who abuse their positions of trust for personal gain.” This case was investigated by the FBI and is being prosecuted by Senior Litigation Counsel, Charles R. Walsh. The Office of Government Ethics collaborated during the investigation. If found guilty, the defendants could face up to 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Criminal indictments contain only charges and are not evidence of guilt. Defendants are presumed to be innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption WASHINGTON—Three Police of Puerto Rico (POPR) officers and two civilians were charged with robbery, firearms violations, drug conspiracy and civil rights violations for their involvement in a July 2012 robbery in Bayamon, Puerto Rico, and an additional POPR officer was charged with lying to federal agents. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodríguez-Vélez of the District of Puerto Rico and Special Agent in Charge Carlos Cases of the FBI’s San Juan Field Office made the announcement. Jorge Fernandez-Aviles, 48, Fernando Reyes-Rojas, 42, and David Figueroa-Rodríguez, 32, were charged in an indictment returned yesterday in the District of Puerto Rico with one count of conspiracy to commit robbery and one count of conspiracy to commit civil rights violations; Fernandez and Reyes were also charged with one count of conspiracy to possess and distribute controlled substances and one count of firearms possession. Alexander Mir-Hernandez, 39, was charged with one count of false statements for lying to federal agents about his role and the roles of others in the July 2012 robbery. Pedro Lopez-Torres, 35, and Luis Ramos-Figueroa, 38, were each charged by information on June 25, 2014, for their roles in the July 2012 robbery and other crimes. Lopez and Ramos pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge José A. Fusté of the District of Puerto Rico on the same day. The charges against them were unsealed today. At the time of the crimes charged, Jorge Fernandez-Aviles was a sergeant with POPR, Pedro Lopez-Torres, Luis Ramos-Figueroa and Alexander Mir-Hernandez were POPR officers, and Fernando Reyes-Rojas and David Figueroa-Rodríguez were civilians. According to court documents, Reyes asked POPR Sergeant Fernandez and Officers Lopez and Ramos to participate in a robbery of a civilian. The officers agreed amongst themselves to participate. They further agreed that Officer Ramos would invite his cousin, Figueroa, to join them, and Officer Lopez would contact Officer Mir to borrow a marked patrol car to facilitate the planned robbery. On July 14, 2012, Sergeant Fernandez, Officer Lopez, Officer Ramos and Figueroa went to the airport where they picked up a marked patrol car from Officer Mir. They drove the patrol car to meet Reyes and then went together to the location of the robbery. Sergeant Fernandez, Officer Lopez and Officer Ramos were dressed in dark colored, tactical police gear and armed with their POPR issued handguns. Figueroa and Reyes were also dressed in dark colored clothing, and Reyes appeared to have a handgun as well. Upon entering the house through the garage, one or more of the officers identified themselves as police and falsely claimed they were executing a search warrant. They ordered several individuals in the garage to stand facing the wall and searched them for weapons. While Figueroa watched the occupants, Sergeant Fernandez, Officer Lopez, Officer Ramos and Reyes searched the property. They ultimately went to a shed in the backyard, where Reyes found cocaine and exclaimed, “Bingo!” At that point, they all departed in their respective vehicles. A few days later, Reyes met with Lopez and gave him money, which Reyes explained was a portion of the proceeds from the sale of the cocaine he took on the day of the robbery. Officer Lopez split the money with Sergeant Fernandez and Officer Ramos. According to the indictment, Officer Mir was interviewed by Special Agents of the FBI and lied. Officer Mir falsely claimed that he did not recognize a photograph of Officer Lopez; that he had not met with Officer Lopez in more than six months; and that he did not provide the patrol car that was used to commit the July 2012 robbery. An indictment is merely an allegation, and a defendant is presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. This case is being investigated by the FBI’s San Juan Division. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Heidi Boutros Gesch and Marquest J. Meeks of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Mariana Bauza of the District of Puerto Rico.
corruption The United States Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania announced today the filing of a criminal information charging Robert F. Evans, Jr., age 38, Moosic, Pennsylvania, with distributing oxycodone on numerous occasions between August 2012 to July 29, 2013. At the time of the offense, Evans was employed as a police officer with the Hughestown Borough Police Department. United States Attorney Peter Smith stated that the charge is the result of an investigation conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Pennsylvania State Police. Prosecution is assigned to Assistant United States Attorney John Gurganus. Indictments and Criminal Informations are only allegations. All persons charged are presumed to be innocent unless and until found guilty in court. A sentence following a finding of guilty is imposed by the Judge after consideration of the applicable federal sentencing statutes and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines. In this particular case, the maximum penalty under the federal statute is twenty years’ imprisonment, a term of supervised release following imprisonment, and a fine. Under the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, the Judge is also required to consider and weigh a number of factors, including the nature, circumstances and seriousness of the offense; the history and characteristics of the defendant; and the need to punish the defendant, protect the public and provide for the defendant’s educational, vocational and medical needs. For these reasons, the statutory maximum penalty for the offense is not an accurate indicator of the potential sentence for a specific defendant.
corruption KANSAS CITY, MO—Tammy Dickinson, United States Attorney for the Western District of Missouri, announced that the former court administrator for the Jackson County Circuit Court was sentenced in federal court today for a fraud scheme in which she embezzled more than $140,000 from the circuit court. “This highly paid public official abused her position of trust and authority to steal from the court month after month, year after year, and did not stop until she was caught,” Dickinson said. “She lavished public money on personal luxuries and secretly enriched her boyfriend. Now she is being held accountable for breaking the laws she was sworn to uphold.” Teresa L. York, 59, of Blue Springs, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Howard F. Sachs to two years in federal prison without parole. The court also ordered York to pay $139,536 in restitution. York was appointed as the court administrator for the Jackson County Circuit Court in 2003. She was placed on administrative leave on June 4, 2012, after her embezzlement was discovered, and resigned on July 2, 2012. York pleaded guilty to mail fraud on Nov. 21, 2013. York admitted that she engaged in a scheme to defraud the court between January 2009 and June 4, 2012. York used court-paid credit cards for her own personal use and purchased gift cards paid for by the court for her own personal use. York also entered into a fraudulent contract for which no services were ever provided and which primarily benefited a person with whom she had a romantic relationship. As a result of York’s fraudulent actions, the total loss to the court was $142,278. After being confronted with her embezzlement scheme and placed on leave, York reimbursed the court $2,742, resulting in a total loss of $139,536. Credit Card Scheme The Jackson County Circuit Court used credit cards to pay for court business, such as judicial travel and Missouri Bar expenses. These credit cards were collectively referred to as purchasing cards, or “P-cards.” As court administrator, York was an authorized user of the P-cards. York admitted that, from 2009 to 2012, she used the court’s P-card to purchase: $2,252 for gas for her personal driving, even though the court used mileage reimbursement forms to reimburse business driving; $9,532 for personal items and gift cards from Amazon; $6,446 for personal items such as clothing and make-up; $8,350 for personal meals; $487 for U.S. postal stamps for her personal use (the court uses metered postage for its mail, rather than stamps); $46,535 for Apple computer products (the court did not use a system compatible with Apple computers); $35,356 for gift cards. (York kept most of the gift cards, in the amount of $29,371, for her personal use and distributed $5,985 of these gift cards to court staff, on a merit system determined by her, as a type of bonus. The amounts of the cards were more than the Internal Revenue Service de minimis requirements for income reporting, however, the cards were not ever tracked or reported as income.) York also sold some computers owned by the court and kept the proceeds of the sales for her personal use. The loss to the court from York’s credit card scheme was $79,438. Contract Scheme York also engaged in a fraudulent contract scheme. On Sept. 30, 2010, York entered into a contract with CBDM Services, LLC, on behalf of the court, purportedly for workflow analysis (a business process review, a customer service evaluation and an organizational redesign). The amount to be paid was originally $68,000, although it was later increased to $69,500. CBDM was not organized as a company at the time the contract was signed. CBDM and its owner, identified in court documents as “N.D.,” were actually a front used to conceal the true contracting party, identified in court documents as “B.V.” York did not disclose to the court that B.V. would be receiving more than 90 percent of the payments made to CBDM or that she had a romantic relationship with B.V. At York’s direction, the court paid CBDM a total of $64,500, although no usable work product or report was produced. Of the $64,500 paid by the court, the owner and only principal of CBDM (identified in court documents as “N.D.”) kept approximately $2,000 plus banking fees and sent the remainder, approximately $62,000, to B.V. This case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Kathleen D. Mahoney. It was investigated by the FBI.
corruption TAMPA, FL—United States Attorney A. Lee Bentley, III announces that Jerry St. Fleur (26, Tampa) today pleaded guilty to wire fraud and aggravated identity theft. St. Fleur faces a maximum penalty of twenty years in federal prison. A sentencing date has not yet been set. According to the plea agreement, beginning no later than January 2011, and continuing until about May 2014, St. Fleur, in his capacity as a correctional officer at the Zephyrhills Correctional Facility, in Zephyrhills, Florida, unlawfully accessed and stole the personal identifying information (PII) of inmates, both former and current, within the Florida Department of Corrections (FDOC). St. Fleur would “screen scrape” (i.e., cut and paste) inmates’ PII, without their knowledge or permission, from FDOC databases and then use that PII to file false tax returns. As part of this scheme, St. Fleur filed approximately 182 fraudulent income tax returns. The government estimates that the total amount of fraudulent refunds requested from the 182 tax returns was over $500,000. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Internal Revenue Service – Criminal Investigation, and the Hillsborough County Sheriff’s Office. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Matthew Jackson. This case was brought as part of the Tampa Bay Identity Theft Alliance, an initiative dedicated to combating the scheme of using stolen identities to file fraudulent federal income tax refund claims. The United States Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of Florida, the United States Secret Service, the United States Postal Inspection Service, Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Tampa Police Department and the Hillsborough County Sheriff’s Office are working together on this joint investigative and enforcement effort.
corruption WASHINGTON—The former mayor of New Orleans, C. Ray Nagin, 58, a resident of Frisco, Texas, was sentenced today to serve 120 months in prison and ordered to pay $84,264 in restitution by United States District Judge Helen G. Berrigan of the Eastern District of Louisiana for conspiracy, bribery, honest services wire fraud, money laundering and tax violations, announced the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Louisiana. A preliminary order of forfeiture was signed by Judge Berrigan on May 27, 2014 in the amount of $501,200.56. Nagin served as the Mayor of New Orleans from 2002 to 2010. A federal grand jury sitting in the Eastern District of Louisiana indicted Nagin on Jan. 18, 2013. Nagin stood trial from Jan. 27, 2014, to Feb. 12, 2014 when the jury found Nagin guilty on 20 of 21 counts in the indictment. “Given the nature and extent of former Mayor Nagin’s criminal conduct and betrayal of public trust over the course of several years, hopefully this result will bring at least some level of resolution to the city and its residents,” said Special Agent in Charge Michael J. Anderson of the New Orleans Field Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). “In February, a jury of New Orleans citizens sent Mr. Nagin the message, loud and clear, that public officials will be held accountable for public corruption and criminal activity,” said Chief Richard Weber, IRS-Criminal Investigation. “Today’s sentence confirms that message—public servants are elected to serve the public, not benefit from the position. No one is above the law, and IRS-Criminal Investigation will continue to investigate all financial crimes which undermine the public’s confidence in its elected officials.” “NOLAOIG discovered financial discrepancies when it conducted an evaluation of the City’s Crime Camera System in 2009,” said Inspector General Ed Quatreveaux for the City of New Orleans. “The joint FBI-NOLAOIG investigation into those discrepancies eventually led to the convictions of Greg Meffert, Mark St. Pierre and the former mayor. NOLAOIG will continue its work to root out fraud and abuse in city operations to protect the city from those who would defraud it.” “Ray Nagin’s sentencing brings to a close a sordid chapter in New Orleans’ history in which the man charged with leading a city out of crisis instead chose to enrich himself, his family and friends,” said Rafael C. Goyeneche III, President of the Metropolitan Crime Commission. “This case epitomizes the vital role the public plays in exposing corruption as information supplied by citizens through the Metropolitan Crime Commission aided the FBI and U.S. Attorney’s Office in bringing this case to a just conclusion.” “Our elected officials are entrusted to place the interests of the citizens above their own,” said United States Attorney Kenneth Allen Polite Jr. “When they violate that trust and break the law, the U.S. Attorney’s Office will pursue them zealously and bring them to justice.” The case was investigated by the FBI, the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation Division and the New Orleans Office of Inspector General. The U.S. Attorney’s Office would also like to acknowledge the assistance provided by the Metropolitan Crime Commission. The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Matthew M. Coman, Richard R. Pickens II and Matthew S. Chester.
corruption BUFFALO, NY—U.S. Attorney William J. Hochul, Jr. announced today that Franklin Lopez, 33, of Buffalo, N.Y., pleaded guilty to stealing thousands of dollars from the City of Buffalo, a Governmental agency which receives federal funding, before U.S. District Judge Richard J. Arcara. The charge carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison, a fine of $250,000 or both. “Two and a half years ago, the public first learned of wide spread corruption in this City department,” said U.S. Attorney Hochul. “Thanks to the continuing efforts of law enforcement and current City officials, we can now report that a fourth Parking Enforcement employee has been convicted of stealing tens of thousands of dollars over a multi-year period of time. While seldom have we seen a single department so riddled with criminals, the public can rest assured that we will not stop until all who broke the law are brought to justice.” Assistant U.S. Attorney Maura K. O’Donnell, who is handling the case, stated that the defendant was employed part time as a coin collector for in the City of Buffalo Department of Parking Enforcement between 2002 and 2011. In this capacity, Lopez was responsible for collecting coins deposited into parking meters. On August 16, 2011, Buffalo Police found over $1,300 in coins inside the defendant’s work vehicle, money that was supposed to be deposited into the city treasury. Further investigation, including a review of Lopez’s banking records, revealed a substantial amount of cash deposits and cash payments for a variety of items. Between November 2002 and August 2011, Lopez stole approximately $69,000 from city parking meters. With today’s conviction, the amount of money proven to be stolen by the convicted defendants exceeds $300,000. Lopez is the fourth employee of the Department of Parking Enforcement to be convicted in this case. James Bagarozzo was convicted of stealing over $200,000 from Buffalo parking meters and sentenced to 30 months in prison on August 16, 2013. Bagarozzo was also ordered to pay $210,000 in restitution. Lawrence Charles has also been convicted of stealing over $10,000 from Buffalo parking meters and was sentenced to six months and prison and ordered to pay $15,000 in restitution. Francis Tronolone was convicted of stealing $9,000 in coins from city parking meters and is scheduled to be sentenced on August 15, 2014. The plea is the culmination of an investigation on the part Special Agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Buffalo Police Department, under the direction of Commissioner Daniel Derenda. Sentencing is scheduled for October 16, 2014 at 1:00 p.m. before Judge Arcara.
corruption ALBUQUERQUE—Two men from Gallup, N.M., pleaded guilty today to federal charges arising out of a scheme to defraud the United States and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) of more than $100,000. The guilty pleas were announced by U.S. Attorney Damon P. Martinez, Phyllis Robinson, Special Agent in Charge of Region 6, HUD Office of Inspector General, and Carol K.O. Lee, Special Agent in Charge of the Albuquerque Division of the FBI. The defendants, Danny Garcia, 38, and Michael Virruso, 61, were indicted in Aug. 2013, on one count of conspiracy and eight counts of making false claims against the United States. Garcia also was charged with three counts of theft from programs receiving federal funds. According to the indictment, between June 2010 and Oct. 2012, Garcia and Virruso engaged in a scheme to steal federal funds provided by HUD to the Gallup Housing Authority (GHA). HUD is a federal agency whose core mission is to make quality, affordable housing accessible to all Americans. HUD oversees and funds programs designed to provide affordable housing for low-income Americans. One such program, the Capital Fund Program (CFP), provides grants to public housing agencies for the purpose of making improvements to public housing developments. GHA is a public housing agency that receives approximately $400,000 in CFP grants each year and Garcia was the Executive Director of GHA at the time of the offenses charged in the indictment. As Executive Director of GHA, Garcia was responsible for selecting contractors to carry out GHA projects, reviewing and approving invoices payable by GHA, and requesting HUD funds to pay for GHA projects. According to the indictment, in summer 2010, Garcia awarded a contract to remove and replace sidewalks in a GHA housing development to a construction company that employed Virruso and appointed Virruso to act as safety inspector. While working on the project, Virruso submitted invoices to GHA for work performed by the company and for which the company received payment. Garcia used GHA funds to pay Virruso’s invoices and then obtained reimbursement from HUD’s CFP. Virruso and Garcia then formed a company together, MCL Construction. Virruso submitted a fraudulent invoice from MCL to Garcia, who approved the invoice for payment from HUD funds, and both men collected a share of the proceeds. Virruso fraudulently received more than $75,000 through this scheme. In addition, Garcia embezzled more than $15,000 of HUD funds by misusing a GHA debit card. During today’s proceedings, both men entered guilty pleas to Counts 1 and 9 of the indictment charging them with conspiracy to commit false claims against the United States and false claims against the United States. Garcia also pleaded guilty to Count 10 of the indictment charging him with theft from a program receiving federal funds. In their respective plea agreements, Garcia and Virruso each admitted participating in the unlawful scheme described in the indictment. Garcia also admitted embezzling GHA funds by making personal purchases exceeding $5,000 per year using a debit card linked to a GHA bank account. Under the terms of the plea agreements, Garcia and Virruso each will be sentenced to a prison term within the range of 18 to 24 months followed by a term of supervised release to be determined by the court. Garcia also was ordered to pay $105,000 with interest in restitution to the United States, including $75,000 that is to be paid jointly with Virruso. Both men remain on conditions of release pending their sentencing hearings, which have yet to be scheduled. The case was investigated by the Region 6, HUD Office of Inspector General and the Albuquerque Division of the FBI, and is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeremy Peña.
corruption BALTIMORE, MD—Napoleon McLain, Jr., age 31, of Randallstown, Maryland pleaded guilty today to conspiring to distribute and possess with intent to distribute cocaine base. The guilty plea was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein and Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. According to his plea agreement, McLain is an officer with the Baltimore City School Police Force (BCSPF). BCSPF officers are granted police privileges to carry firearms and conduct arrests within the City of Baltimore. From no later than December 2012 to August 2013, while he was employed as a BCSPF officer, McLain was a member of a conspiracy to distribute cocaine base. McLain bought multiple ounces of cocaine base at a time from his suppliers, which he sold to others. On four occasions between December 2012 and August 2013, McLain sold a total of approximately 150 grams of cocaine base to a confidential source for $9,800. McLain faces a maximum sentence of 40 years in prison. U.S. District Judge Catherine C. Blake scheduled sentencing for October 15, 2014 at 9:15 a.m. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI for its work in the investigation and thanked Assistant U.S. Attorney David I. Sharfstein, who is prosecuting the case.
corruption FBI Special Agent in Charge Daphne Hearn announces the arrest of Timothy Francis Cashman, age 53, of Lakeside, California. Cashman was arrested on Tuesday, July 1, 2014, at approximately 10:00 a.m., near the San Ysidro Port of Entry where his office is located. Cashman was arrested without incident by agents and investigators from the FBI, Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and the General Services Administration (GSA)-Office of Inspector General (OIG). Agents were assisted by Customs Border Protection Office of Field Operations Officers. Cashman is a building manager for the GSA and oversees operations and maintenance contracts, as well as alteration and small repair projects at the Otay Mesa, San Ysidro, and Tecate Ports of Entry. According to the federal complaint, filed by an FBI special agent, with the U.S. District Court, Southern District of California, case number 14MJ2306, Cashman is charged with violating Title 18, United States Code (U.S.C.), 371, conspiracy to bribe and give gratuities to a public official and Title 18, U.S.C., 641, theft of government property. The complaint alleges Cashman has been involved in the theft of government property and selling this property for his personal benefit. In addition, Cashman is alleged to have accepted bribes and gratuities in exchange for helping to steer hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of GSA contracts to a co-conspirator. The complaint alleges in about 2007, Cashman communicated and accepted services from a co-conspirator seeking to obtain GSA contracts. Cashman’s home was painted and windows installed in return for Cashman assisting this co-conspirator with obtaining GSA contracts. In 2008, Cashman allegedly engaged in a scheme with a co-conspirator to award a GSA contract to the co-conspirator in return that the co-conspirator would funnel $120,000 through a specified company. Agents determined the company that received the $120,000 subsequently made a series of payments to Cashman totaling $42,000. The complaint alleges that Cashman also engaged in a scheme with others involving the theft of thousands of dollars worth of copper and aluminum panels from the Otay Mesa Port of Entry. Cashman received a portion of the proceeds from the sale of this stolen property. Following his arrest, Cashman was transported to the San Diego FBI Office to be fingerprinted and photographed. Cashman was subsequently booked into the Bureau of Prisons (BOP), Metropolitan Correctional Center (MCC) pending his initial appearance before a U.S. Magistrate Judge on Wednesday, July 2, 2014. This case is being prosecuted by the U.S. Attorney’s Office, Southern District of California, San Diego, California. This case is being investigated by the FBI, IRS, and GSA-OIG. Media Contacts: FBI—Special Agent Darrell Foxworth, (858) 320-8302, Darrell.foxworth@ic.fbi.gov U.S. Attorney—Public Affairs Coordinator, Kelly Thornton, (619) 546-9726, Kelly.thornton@usdoj.gov An arrest itself is not evidence that the defendant committed crimes charged. The defendant is presumed innocent until the government meets its burden in court of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption SPRINGFIELD, IL—A federal grand jury today returned an indictment that charges Leon Eddie Mondy, former acting Pembroke Township Supervisor, with defrauding township accounts of more than $60,000 from August 2012 to May 2013. Mondy will be issued a summons to appear in federal court in Urbana for arraignment on a date to be determined by the U.S. Clerk of the Court. The indictment charges Mondy, 35, of St. Anne, Ill., with one count of wire fraud. According to the indictment, as acting Pembroke Township Supervisor, Mondy was a signatory and had access to multiple bank accounts that held township funds. The indictment alleges that Mondy made cash withdrawals of township funds under the false pretense that the funds would be used for the benefit of Pembroke Township. In fact, the indictment alleges Mondy used the funds for his personal benefit, such as for gambling. Mondy allegedly withdrew cash from various Pembroke Township accounts, such as the Insurance Fund, Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund, Water Debt Fund, Community Center Fund, and the Senior Nutrition Fund. The charge is the result of an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Illinois Attorney General’s Office. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Eugene L. Miller. If convicted, the offense of wire fraud carries a maximum statutory penalty of 20 years in prison and fines of up to $250,000. Members of the public are reminded that an indictment is merely an accusation; the defendant is presumed innocent unless proven guilty.
corruption United States Attorney Kenneth Allen Polite, Jr. announced that STACEY JACKSON, age 47, a resident of New Orleans, Louisiana, pleaded guilty today before U.S. District Judge Mary Ann Vial Lemmon to conspiracy to steal federal funds and demand kickbacks from a program receiving federal funds. According to court documents, JACKSON, the former Executive Director of New Orleans Affordable Homeownership (“NOAH”), a city agency and non-profit corporation, conspired with Earl Myers, Trellis Smith, and others to misuse and personally benefit from federal funds that NOAH had received, in violation of the law. The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”), both before and after Hurricane Katrina, had provided grant money to the City of New Orleans to address blight within the city and to remediate homes damaged by the storm. JACKSON, as the Executive Director of NOAH, was responsible for the day-to-day management of the agency and determined how much each contractor would be paid. JACKSON arranged to overpay certain contractors, such as Myers and Smith, instructing them to kickback portions of the overpayments to JACKSON’S benefit. Specifically, court documents state that on numerous occasions, JACKSON instructed Myers and Smith to pay her kickbacks out of the NOAH money she paid them for work that could not be substantiated by invoices or work actually performed. For example, in or near October 2005, JACKSON, wrote a check from NOAH to Parish Dubuclet, a company operated by her friend, Smith, for approximately $15,260, which was deposited into a bank account belonging to Smith and Parish Dubuclet. On or about October 8, 2005, Parish Dubuclet wrote a check in the amount of $10,460 to JACKSON’S father, which was deposited into a bank account that JACKSON, controlled jointly with her father. Several days later,JACKSON used this money to write a check to a tree removal service to pay for the removal of a tree from her mother’s yard. Court documents state that from in or near December of 2006 through in or near July of 2007,JACKSON contracted with Myers to renovate properties that she owned, which were located on 6th Street and Danneel Street in New Orleans, Louisiana. JACKSON paid Myers tens of thousands of dollars toward the renovation project and used public funds belonging to the United States and distributed to NOAH to pay Myers a portion of the money she owed him for these renovations. Documents in the court records also outline that on or about November 1, 2007, JACKSON wrote two checks to companies owned and operated by Myers. One check was for $47,899.50 to Myers & Sons. JACKSON instructed Myers to give portions of this money to different entities, such as a school thatJACKSON was affiliated with. The second check for $32,842.50 was payable to Excel Development, also owned and operated by Myers. JACKSON directed Myers to kickback a portion of this money to her by having him write two checks, one for $9,400 and one for $7,000 payable to Z.F., a person whoJACKSON knew personally and to whose checking account she had access. Myers complied with these instructions because he knew it would ensure that he would continue getting NOAH remediation work assignments from JACKSON. Also according to court documents, on or around August 13, 14, and 15, 2008, after JACKSON became aware that Myers had received a subpoena from a federal grand jury ordering him to turn over documents supporting the work he had done for NOAH, JACKSON provided false and fraudulent documents to Myers in an effort to mislead the federal grand jury into finding that no fraud occurred at the defendant’s direction or while she was the Executive Director of NOAH. JACKSON is scheduled to be sentenced on October 16, 2014, and faces a maximum term of imprisonment of five years, a fine of up to $250,000, and three years of supervised release. “Today’s guilty plea stands as the most recent example of our Office’s continued vigilance in prosecuting public corruption,” stated U.S. Attorney Polite. “By diverting federal funds from those most in need in our community, Ms. Jackson’s criminal conduct further eroded public confidence in our government. On behalf of the residents of Southeast Louisiana, we will continue to demand lawful and ethical conduct from our public officials.” “In the wake of the recent conviction of former mayor Ray Nagin and now the guilty plea of Ms. Jackson, the FBI and its law enforcement partners will continue their tireless pursuit of all those who unlawfully financially capitalize upon the Katrina tragedy event as its 10-year anniversary nears,” state Michael Anderson, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation, New Orleans Field Office. Special Agent in Charge Gabriel L. Grchan, IRS – Criminal Investigation, stated, “Public corruption degrades the integrity of government leadership and erodes the trust instilled in public officials by the very individuals they are appointed or elected to serve. It is a great accomplishment when an individual who has violated that trust is brought to justice. The plea ensures that Stacey Jackson will be held accountable for her misdeeds and the detriment she caused the great city of New Orleans and its citizens.” “This guilty plea was the result of outstanding investigative work conducted by HUD-OIG, and our law enforcement partners,” stated Wyatt J. Achord, Assistant Special Agent in Charge, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development-Office of Inspector General. “This collaborative effort sends a clear message that if someone takes advantage of a government subsidized program they will be held accountable.” The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of Housing and Urban Development—Office of Inspector General, the Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation, City of New Orleans—Office of Inspector General, and the United States Postal Inspection Service. The U.S. Attorney’s Office would also like to acknowledge the assistance of the Metropolitan Crime Commission. The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney and Senior Litigation Counsel Fred P. Harper, Jr. and Assistant U.S. Attorney Sharan Lieberman.
corruption Preet Bharara, United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, George Venizelos, the Assistant Director-in-Charge of the New York Office and Andrew W. Vale the Special Agent in Charge of the Albany Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (“FBI”), and Shantelle P. Kitchen, the Acting Special Agent in Charge of the New York Field Office of the Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation (“IRS”), announced today that a grand jury sitting in White Plains has returned an Indictment charging New York State Senator THOMAS W. LIBOUS with making false statements to the FBI in connection with a federal grand jury investigation about payments he allegedly caused an Albany lobbying firm to funnel to his son, Matthew Libous. Matthew Libous, an attorney, was also separately charged with tax crimes, including his failure to identify the source of payments he received from the lobbying firm. Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara stated: “As alleged, Thomas Libous took advantage of his position as Senator and Chairman of the Transportation Committee by corruptly causing lobbyists, who wanted Libous’s influence to benefit their clients, to funnel money through a law firm to his son where Libous has gotten his son a position. He then tried to cover up his corrupt conduct by lying to FBI Agents about his knowledge of his son’s arrangement with the firm, as the Indictment describes. Public servants should serve the public first, not themselves and their families. This Office will continue to pursue elected officials who attempt to take corrupt advantage of their positions.” Assistant FBI Director George Venizelos stated: “As alleged, rather than serve the public he took an oath to serve, Senator Libous used his political position to garner favorable treatment for himself and his son. Lying to FBI Agents is a serious offense and his alleged criminal conduct is an injustice to the community he represents. The investigation and indictment of Senator Libous demonstrates the FBI’s ongoing commitment to weed out public corruption at all levels of government and bring to justice those who betray the public’s trust.” Acting Special Agent in Charge of IRS – Criminal investigation Shantelle P. Kitchen stated: “IRS-Criminal Investigation will thoroughly investigate those who wilfully violate the income tax laws and obstruct tax administration and we will work with the Department of Justice to see that they are prosecuted. While prosecuting violators is essential to making the tax system work, such prosecutions also reassure the confidence of honest taxpayers in the tax system. We are committed to ensuring that everyone pays their fair share.” According to the allegations in the Indictment: A federal grand jury in White Plains was investigating allegations that THOMAS LIBOUS had obtained a job for a family member at a Westchester law firm (“the Law Firm”) in exchange for a promise to refer business to the firm and had arranged for an Albany lobbying firm that regularly lobbied him to secretly pay the law firm $50,000 per year to defray the cost of Libous’s son’s salary and lease of a Range Rover. The lobbying firm specialized in transportation issues and THOMAS LIBOUS served as the Chairman of the Senate’s Transportation Committee at the time. The Indictment further alleges that THOMAS LIBOUS told a partner of the Law Firm that the firm would have to “build a new wing” to accommodate the business he would refer to it if it hired his son. Special Agents of the FBI interviewed THOMAS LIBOUS on June 24, 2010, as part of the grand jury’s investigation. According to the Indictment, THOMAS LIBOUS made the following false statements to the agents during the interview: he could not recall how his son began to work at the Law Firm; no deals were made to get his son the job at the Law Firm; he was not aware that the lobbying firm had paid any part of his son’s salary at the Law Firm; he never promised to refer work to the Law Firm; he was not involved in his son’s decision to work at the Law Firm; he had no business or personal relationship with the Law Firm; and he did not know of any relationship between the lobbying firm and the Law Firm. * * * THOMAS LIBOUS, 61, of Binghamton, New York, faces a maximum sentence of five years’ imprisonment. The maximum potential sentence is prescribed by Congress and is provided here for informational purposes, as any sentencing of the defendant will be determined by the judge. * * * Also announced today is the return of a second Indictment, returned by a grand jury sitting in White Plains, charging MATTHEW LIBOUS with obstructing the IRS in its administration of the tax laws and subscribing to false tax returns. According to the allegations in the Indictment: MATTHEW LIBOUS, 32, was employed at a Westchester law firm in early 2006. At the same time, MATTHEW LIBOUS received legal fees directly from clients for whom he provided legal services without the law firm’s knowledge. After the law firm terminated MATTHEW LIBOUS’ employment, MATTHEW LIBOUS continued to receive legal fees from clients which he failed to report on his federal income tax return. The Indictment alleges that MATTHEW LIBOUS failed to accurately identify the source of payments he received from an Albany lobbying firm that were funneled to him through the Westchester law firm. The Indictment also alleges that MATTHEW LIBOUS failed to report a total of $57,580 in legal fees and other income on his 2006, 2007 and 2008 tax returns. In 2008, MATTHEW LIBOUS became an owner of Wireless Construction Solutions, LLC (“WCS”), a Westchester-based company that installed and serviced cellular telephone towers. The Indictment alleges that from 2008 through 2011, MATTHEW LIBOUS caused WCS to pay personal expenses on his behalf, including expenses for multiple casino trips, vacations, iTune purchases, a gym membership, an Internet dating subscription, spa treatments, visits to tanning salons, clothing, food and student loan payments. According to the Indictment, MATTHEW LIBOUS caused WCS to pay $244,218 in personal expenses from 2008 through 2011. The Indictment alleges that MATTHEW LIBOUS failed to report any of this income on his tax return. The Indictment charges MATTHEW LIBOUS with one count of obstructing the administration of the tax laws, which carries a maximum sentence of three years’ imprisonment, and five counts of subscribing to false tax returns, each of which carries a maximum sentence of three years’ imprisonment. The maximum potential sentence is prescribed by Congress and is provided here for informational purposes, as any sentencing of the defendant will be determined by the judge. Mr. Bharara praised the investigative work of the FBI and the IRS. These prosecutions are being handled by the Office’s White Plains Division. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Perry A. Carbone and James McMahon are in charge of the prosecutions. The charges contained in the Indictments are merely accusations, and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption LOS ANGELES—Six sworn officers who were working in the Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department were found guilty today of obstruction of justice for interfering with a federal civil rights investigation into misconduct at the Men’s Central Jail. A federal jury determined that the defendants, including two lieutenants, attempted to influence witnesses, threatened an FBI agent with arrest and concealed an FBI informant who should have been turned over to federal authorities. All six of the defendants were convicted of participating in a broad conspiracy to obstruct justice, a plot that began in the summer of 2011 after they learned that a jail inmate was an FBI informant and was acting as a cooperator in a federal investigation into corruption and civil rights violations at the jail. “The deputy sheriffs found guilty today participated in a scheme to thwart a federal grand jury investigation into violations of basic constitutional rights guaranteed to both prisoners and visitors to county jails,” said United States Attorney André Birotte Jr. “While an overwhelming majority of law enforcement officials serve with honor and dignity, these defendants tarnished the badge by acting on the false belief that they were above the law.” “Law enforcement at all levels must work together to arrive at justice and to safeguard the civil rights of all the people we serve,” said Bill L. Lewis, the Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Los Angeles Field Office. “Today’s verdict is another step toward ending a period of corruption at the Men’s Central Jail for the good of the public, as well as the employees of the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, who have continued to serve with distinction while enduring this temporary stain on the department’s reputation.” The defendants convicted today are: Gregory Thompson, 54, a now-retired lieutenant who oversaw LASD’s Operation Safe Jails Program; Lieutenant Stephen Leavins, 52, who was assigned to the LASD’s Internal Criminal Investigations Bureau; Gerard Smith, 42, a deputy who was assigned to the Operation Safe Jails Program; Mickey Manzo, 34, a deputy who was assigned to the Operation Safe Jails Program; Scott Craig, 50, a sergeant who was assigned to the Internal Criminal Investigations Bureau; and Maricela Long, 46, a sergeant who assigned to the Internal Criminal Investigations Bureau. The evidence presented at trial showed that the defendants learned that an inmate received a cellular phone from a deputy sheriff who took a bribe and that the inmate was part of a federal civil rights investigation. The deputies took affirmative steps to hide the cooperator from the FBI and the United States Marshals Service, which was attempting to bring the inmate into federal custody pursuant to an order issued by a federal judge. As part of the conspiracy, records were altered to make it appear as if the cooperator had been released, but he was re-booked under different names. The deputies also engaged in witness tampering by attempting to influence witnesses to not cooperate with the federal grand jury investigation, including the informant and the sheriff’s deputy who had taken a bribe to smuggle the cell phone into the jail. Over the course of several weeks, the defendants sought an order from a Los Angeles Superior Court judge that would have compelled the FBI to turn over information about its investigation to LASD. After the judge refused to issue such an order, based on a lack of jurisdiction, Craig and Long confronted an FBI special agent at her residence in an attempt to intimidate her into providing details about the investigation and to try to deter the FBI from conducting the federal investigation. The sergeants falsely told the special agent, and later her supervisor, that they were obtaining a warrant for her arrest. In addition to the conspiracy count, all six deputies were convicted of obstruction of justice offenses. Craig and Long were also found guilty of making false statements to the FBI agent and to her supervisor about seeking a warrant for her arrest. As a result of today’s convictions, all six defendants face statutory maximum sentences of 15 years in federal prison (with Craig and Long facing another potential five years for the false statements charges). The defendants are scheduled to be sentenced on September 8 by United States District Judge Percy Anderson. Thompson is retired. The rest of the defendants, according to the Sheriff’s Department, were relieved of duty without pay in December 2013.
corruption INDIANAPOLIS—The United States Attorney, Joseph H. Hogsett announced this afternoon the arrest and charging of Alan S. Mizen, 59, Zionsville. Mizen served as the Chief Financial Officer for Center Township in Marion County, Indiana, from November 2001 through January 2011. Mizen now faces prosecution for Theft/Embezzlement of Federal Program Funds as the U.S. Attorney’s Office has redoubled its efforts to combat, identify, investigate and root out public corruption by elected and appointed officials in Indiana through the activities of the Public Integrity Working Group. “The message of this office has been consistent over the last two years, but bears repeating today: it doesn’t matter what your politics are or what position you hold in our community,” Hogsett said. “If you do not uphold the public trust, our Public Integrity Working Group will find you, investigate you and the U.S. Attorney’s Office will prosecute you to the fullest extent of the law.” A federal criminal complaint, unsealed this morning, charges Mizen with theft concerning programs receiving federal funds. The complaint alleges that Mizen set up an account with PNC Bank and deposited a check in the amount of $343,541.08 that was drawn from public funds into the PNC Bank account. Mizen then used the computerized accounting system at the Center Township Trustees Office to create a false invoice indicating that he had written the check to the “Treasurer of State.” Mizen proceeded to transfer the funds that he deposited into the PNC Bank account to various personal accounts that he maintained. From the personal accounts, Mizen allegedly used over $200,000 to help purchase a residence in Zionsville, purchase a Toyota Tacoma pickup truck, fund his child’s college education, finance personal vacations, purchase a diamond necklace and diamond ring for $8,900 during a trip to the Cayman Islands, and make other consumer purchases. Mizen’s used taxpayer funds to finance these personal expenditures from June 10, 2010 through July 2012. In addition to arresting Mizen, federal authorities froze a bank account and investment account that Mizen used to channel the embezzled funds. Federal authorities seized the 2009 Toyota Tacoma, diamond ring, and diamond bracelet that Mizen purchased in the Cayman Islands with the embezzled funds. Federal authorities also filed a lis pendens on his residence in Zionsville, which prohibits Mizen from transferring his interest in the real estate until the resolution of the criminal case. Hogsett explained this case was the result of outstanding law enforcement work by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Indiana State Board of Accounts, with the assistance of the Internal Revenue Service. All three agencies are partners in the U.S. Attorney’s Public Integrity Working Group, which was launched in April 2012 with the stated purpose of aggressively investigating allegations of public fraud, waste and abuse by public officials in Indiana. Hoosiers with information on public corruption are encouraged to contact the U.S. Attorney’s Office at (317) 229-2443. Federal Bureau of Investigation Acting Special Agent in Charge Kevin Lyons said, “Citizens are owed integrity at all levels of government.” Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation Special Agent in Charge James C. Lee stated, “When public officials commit crimes, whether as part of their official duties or in their private lives, they are violating the public trust. IRS-Criminal Investigation helps ensure that all Americans, including public officials, are held to the same standard.” According to Assistant United States Attorney Bradley A. Blackington, who is prosecuting the case for the government, Mizen could be sentenced to up to ten years in federal prison, and could also face significant fines and federal supervision for up to three years once he has served his prison term. An indictment or complaint are only charges and is not evidence of guilt. A defendant is presumed innocent and is entitled to a fair trial at which the government must prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption Preet Bharara, United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, George Venizelos, the Assistant Director-in-Charge of the New York Office and Andrew W. Vale the Special Agent in Charge of the Albany Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (“FBI”), and Shantelle P. Kitchen, the Acting Special Agent in Charge of the New York Field Office of the Internal Revenue Service—Criminal Investigation (“IRS”), announced today that a grand jury sitting in White Plains has returned an Indictment charging New York State Senator THOMAS W. LIBOUS with making false statements to the FBI in connection with a federal grand jury investigation about payments he allegedly caused an Albany lobbying firm to funnel to his son, Matthew Libous. Matthew Libous, an attorney, was also separately charged with tax crimes, including his failure to identify the source of payments he received from the lobbying firm. Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara stated: “As alleged, Thomas Libous took advantage of his position as Senator and Chairman of the Transportation Committee by corruptly causing lobbyists, who wanted Libous’s influence to benefit their clients, to funnel money through a law firm to his son where Libous has gotten his son a position. He then tried to cover up his corrupt conduct by lying to FBI Agents about his knowledge of his son’s arrangement with the firm, as the Indictment describes. Public servants should serve the public first, not themselves and their families. This Office will continue to pursue elected officials who attempt to take corrupt advantage of their positions.” Assistant FBI Director George Venizelos stated: “As alleged, rather than serve the public he took an oath to serve, Senator Libous used his political position to garner favorable treatment for himself and his son. Lying to FBI Agents is a serious offense and his alleged criminal conduct is an injustice to the community he represents. The investigation and indictment of Senator Libous demonstrates the FBI’s ongoing commitment to weed out public corruption at all levels of government and bring to justice those who betray the public’s trust.” Acting Special Agent in Charge of IRS – Criminal investigation Shantelle P. Kitchen stated: “IRS-Criminal Investigation will thoroughly investigate those who wilfully violate the income tax laws and obstruct tax administration and we will work with the Department of Justice to see that they are prosecuted. While prosecuting violators is essential to making the tax system work, such prosecutions also reassure the confidence of honest taxpayers in the tax system. We are committed to ensuring that everyone pays their fair share.” According to the allegations in the Indictment: A federal grand jury in White Plains was investigating allegations that THOMAS LIBOUS had obtained a job for a family member at a Westchester law firm (“the Law Firm”) in exchange for a promise to refer business to the firm and had arranged for an Albany lobbying firm that regularly lobbied him to secretly pay the law firm $50,000 per year to defray the cost of Libous’s son’s salary and lease of a Range Rover. The lobbying firm specialized in transportation issues and THOMAS LIBOUS served as the Chairman of the Senate’s Transportation Committee at the time. The Indictment further alleges that THOMAS LIBOUS told a partner of the Law Firm that the firm would have to “build a new wing” to accommodate the business he would refer to it if it hired his son. Special Agents of the FBI interviewed THOMAS LIBOUS on June 24, 2010, as part of the grand jury’s investigation. According to the Indictment, THOMAS LIBOUS made the following false statements to the agents during the interview: he could not recall how his son began to work at the Law Firm; no deals were made to get his son the job at the Law Firm; he was not aware that the lobbying firm had paid any part of his son’s salary at the Law Firm; he never promised to refer work to the Law Firm; he was not involved in his son’s decision to work at the Law Firm; he had no business or personal relationship with the Law Firm; and he did not know of any relationship between the lobbying firm and the Law Firm. * * * THOMAS LIBOUS, 61, of Binghamton, New York, faces a maximum sentence of five years’ imprisonment. The maximum potential sentence is prescribed by Congress and is provided here for informational purposes, as any sentencing of the defendant will be determined by the judge. * * * Also announced today is the return of a second Indictment, returned by a grand jury sitting in White Plains, charging MATTHEW LIBOUS with obstructing the IRS in its administration of the tax laws and subscribing to false tax returns. According to the allegations in the Indictment: MATTHEW LIBOUS, 32, was employed at a Westchester law firm in early 2006. At the same time, MATTHEW LIBOUS received legal fees directly from clients for whom he provided legal services without the law firm’s knowledge. After the law firm terminated MATTHEW LIBOUS’ employment, MATTHEW LIBOUS continued to receive legal fees from clients which he failed to report on his federal income tax return. The Indictment alleges that MATTHEW LIBOUS failed to accurately identify the source of payments he received from an Albany lobbying firm that were funneled to him through the Westchester law firm. The Indictment also alleges that MATTHEW LIBOUS failed to report a total of $57,580 in legal fees and other income on his 2006, 2007 and 2008 tax returns. In 2008, MATTHEW LIBOUS became an owner of Wireless Construction Solutions, LLC (“WCS”), a Westchester-based company that installed and serviced cellular telephone towers. The Indictment alleges that from 2008 through 2011, MATTHEW LIBOUS caused WCS to pay personal expenses on his behalf, including expenses for multiple casino trips, vacations, iTune purchases, a gym membership, an Internet dating subscription, spa treatments, visits to tanning salons, clothing, food and student loan payments. According to the Indictment, MATTHEW LIBOUS caused WCS to pay $244,218 in personal expenses from 2008 through 2011. The Indictment alleges that MATTHEW LIBOUS failed to report any of this income on his tax return. The Indictment charges MATTHEW LIBOUS with one count of obstructing the administration of the tax laws, which carries a maximum sentence of three years’ imprisonment, and five counts of subscribing to false tax returns, each of which carries a maximum sentence of three years’ imprisonment. The maximum potential sentence is prescribed by Congress and is provided here for informational purposes, as any sentencing of the defendant will be determined by the judge. Mr. Bharara praised the investigative work of the FBI and the IRS. These prosecutions are being handled by the Office’s White Plains Division. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Perry A. Carbone and James McMahon are in charge of the prosecutions. The charges contained in the Indictments are merely accusations, and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. 14-194 Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption The presidents of two government contracting companies, as well as the companies themselves, were sentenced today for bribing the so-called “Godfather” of Camp Pendleton in exchange for millions of dollars in construction and service contracts at Camp Pendleton and other federal facilities. At today’s hearing, U.S. District Judge Anthony J. Battaglia sentenced Hugo Hernandez Alonso, president of Hugo Alonso, Inc. (HAI), to one year in prison, three years of supervised release and a fine of almost $127,000. His company was sentenced to five years of probation and the same fine, which could be offset by payment of Alonso’s individual fine. Bayani Yabut Abueg, Jr., president of MBR Associates, Inc. (MBRA), was sentenced to six months in prison, three years’ supervised release, $105,025 in restitution to the IRS and a fine of $366,140. His company was sentenced to five years of probation plus a $375,000 fine, which could be offset by payment of Abueg’s individual fine. The judge ordered both men, who are free on bond, to self-surrender by January 2, 2015. Alonso, Abueg, their respective companies, and Natividad Cervantes, who was known as the “Godfather” of Camp Pendleton, all pleaded guilty in January, each admitting their parts in the bribery-kickback scheme. Cervantes is scheduled to be sentenced by Judge Battaglia on July 24, 2014. According to Alonso’s plea agreement, the bribes were made in connection with the awarding of at least six government construction and service contracts from 2008 to 2011. In addition, Alonso, Abueg and their respective companies pleaded guilty to soliciting and accepting kickbacks from subcontractors in relation to government contracts awarded to Alonso and Abueg’s companies (some of which were steered to them by Cervantes). The defendants admitted that they solicited and accepted the kickbacks from various subcontractors in exchange for favorable treatment in connection with future subcontracts. Abueg also admitted filing a false federal income tax return for 2010 that failed to report over $268,000 in illegal kickbacks. Bribery at Camp Pendleton When he entered his guilty plea, Cervantes admitted using his position at Camp Pendleton to solicit bribes from Alonso and Abueg’s construction companies seeking to do business on the base. Cervantes made it clear that since at least as early as September 2008, he used his position supervising construction and service contracts to seek bribes from Alonso and Abueg, on behalf of either HAI or MBRA. In return for awarding HAI and MBRA contracts, Cervantes received cash payments from Alonso and Abueg and extensive free construction work on his personal condominium. As part of his plea agreement, Cervantes admitted that in approximately 2008, he agreed to accept a bribe of $25,000 to assist Alonso and HAI in obtaining a $3.5 million government contract to install flooring at Camp Pendleton. In arranging for a bribe payment, Cervantes, through a third-party conduit, requested that Alonso “have the 25 package” (code for the $25,000 bribe) available on September 5, 2008. On that same day, Alonso provided the $25,000 to the third party conduit for delivery to Cervantes. Cervantes and Alonso admitted that Alonso paid Cervantes a total of at least $119,000 in bribes between 2008 and 2011. Abueg admitted delivering $20,000 of these bribes to Cervantes, at the direction of Alonso. Alonso’s company, HAI, also entered a guilty plea regarding the paying of bribes to Cervantes. The bribes to Cervantes were not limited to just HAI. Both Cervantes and Abueg admitted to exchanging a bribe in 2011 related to the awarding of a $3 million contract at Camp Pendleton to Abueg’s company, MBRA. Further, Cervantes admitted that on March 26, 2013, he met with a cooperating witness, who agreed to pay Cervantes a $40,000 bribe in exchange for assistance in obtaining a new $4 million contract at Camp Pendleton. The bribe was to be structured over a number of payments. The first payment was scheduled for March 28, 2013, with the balance of the bribe to be paid after the contract was awarded. On March 28, 2013, the cooperating witness met with Cervantes at a local business on Miramar Road in San Diego, California, to make the first payment that was discussed earlier in the week. During this meeting, Cervantes discussed, among other things, the payment schedule and the source of funds for the bribe payments. At the end of the meeting, the cooperating witness handed Cervantes an envelope containing $10,000 cash. At that point, FBI agents arrested Cervantes. Kickbacks Related to Government Contracts and Subcontracts In addition to the bribery scheme, Alonso and Abueg engaged in a vast scheme to solicit kickbacks from subcontractors in exchange for favorable treatment in the awarding of subcontracts on various government contracts awarded to HAI and MBRA. Some of these government contracts were the same contracts at Camp Pendleton improperly awarded to HAI and MBRA with Cervantes’ help in exchange for bribes. Abueg, as a representative of HAI and then MBRA, admitted that between 2008 and 2011, he solicited, received, and accepted over $539,000 kickbacks from various subcontractors. The kickbacks typically consisted of cash given to Abueg or to Abueg’s son, and checks issued to Abueg, his son, or his daughter, all in an attempt to conceal the nature of the kickbacks. Other kickbacks to Abueg consisted of subcontractors performing discounted work at the personal residences of Abueg’s wife, relatives, and associates, including Cervantes. For some of the kickbacks, Abueg requested that the subcontractors inflate their original estimate for certain work associated with the government contract. The inflated amount used for the kickback was then improperly included in corporate books and records as a legitimate business expense. Separately, Alonso, as representative of HAI, admitted that in 2009, he accepted a kickback in the form of discounted remodeling of his Chula Vista residence by a subcontractor. Abueg’s and Alonso’s companies, MBRA and HAI, respectively, also entered guilty pleas regarding the solicitation and acceptance of kickbacks. “We are not going to allow criminals to turn the contracting system into their own little fiefdoms,” said U.S. Attorney Laura Duffy. “The extreme home makeover party is over for these defendants, who will no longer be ordering up new kitchens and baths for relatives at taxpayer expense.” FBI Special Agent in Charge Daphne Hearn commented, “Members of our community expect government employees to act ethically and honestly. When even one person dishonors that trust, it rips away the professional dignity that others government servants have spent a lifetime building. At a time when our nation’s military must do more with fewer resources, the actions of the defendants undermine our country’s best interests for their own financial gains.” “It’s all about playing by the rules—you earn an honest dollar and you report it on your tax return. Failure to do so will land you in prison,” said Erick Martinez, Special Agent in Charge of IRS Criminal Investigation. “IRS Criminal Investigation is proud to work with our law enforcement partners by lending its financial expertise in any investigation involving the improper awarding of government contracts.” “The Defense Criminal Investigative Service works closely with its law enforcement partners to bring to justice those individuals who seek to illegally enrich themselves at the expense of U.S. taxpayers,” said Chris Hendrickson, Special Agent in Charge of the Western Field Office. “While the vast majority of DoD contractors exercise lawful business practices and engage in fair competition, a few are driven by greed to break the law. Those who do will be caught and punished. The American taxpayer will accept nothing less.” According to David A. House, Special Agent in Charge, Pacific Rim Regional Office of Investigations General Services Administration, Office of Inspector General: “This investigation demonstrates GSA OIG’s commitment to ensuring the integrity of the procurement process, especially when dealing with public buildings. Bribes and kickbacks are an affront to every taxpayer; we are dedicated to investigating these allegations thoroughly.” “Hugo Alonso and Bayani Abueg instigated a bribery and kickback scheme that defrauded our government and American taxpayers for personal gain,” said Inspector General Peggy E. Gustafson. “Today’s sentencing demonstrates the SBA OIG’s resolve to bring those who commit fraud in SBA’s set-aside contracting programs and erode the public’s trust in government to justice. I want to thank the U.S. Attorney’s Office for its dedicated leadership and professionalism in pursuit of justice served today.” The public is encouraged to report possible public corruption criminal activity by calling the FBI’s public corruption/border corruption hotline at (877) NO-BRIBE or (877) 662-7423, or by calling the Department of Defense’s hotline at (800) 424-9098 or e-mailing hotline@dodig.mil. DEFENDANTS Case Number: 14cr0120-AJB Hugo Hernandez Alonso Age: 50 Chula Vista, CA Case Number: 14cr0144-AJB Bayani Yabut Abueg, Jr. Age: 51 San Diego, CA CORPORATE DEFENDANTS Case Number: 14cr0120-AJB Hugo Alonso, Inc. Chula Vista, CA Case Number: 14cr0144-AJB MBR Associates, Inc. National City, CA SUMMARY OF CHARGES Title 18, United States Code, Section 371 – Conspiracy to commit bribery of public official Maximum penalties for individual defendants: five years’ imprisonment, $250,000 fine, or twice the gross amount of defendant’s pecuniary gain from the offense (Defendants Alonso and Hugo Alonso, Inc.) Title 41, United States Code, Sections 8701, 8702, and 8707 – Anti-Kickback Act Violation Maximum penalties for individual defendants: 10 years’ imprisonment, $250,000 fine, or twice the gross amount of defendant’s pecuniary gain from the offense (Defendants Alonso, Hugo Alonso, Inc., Abueg, and MBR Associates, Inc.) Title 26 United States Code, Section 7206(1) – Filing a False Tax Return Maximum penalties: three years’ imprisonment, $250,000 fine, or twice the gross amount of the tax loss from the offense (Defendant Abueg only) AGENCIES Federal Bureau of Investigation Naval Criminal Investigative Service Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation Department of Defense Criminal Investigative Service General Services Administration, Office of Inspector General Small Business Administration, Office of Inspector General
corruption BALTIMORE, MD—U.S. District Judge Ellen L. Hollander sentenced correctional officer Ebonee Braswell, age 27, of Baltimore, today to 37 months in prison followed by three years of supervised release for participating in a racketeering conspiracy arising from the smuggling of drugs and contraband inside the Baltimore City Detention Center (BCDC). The sentence was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Secretary Gregg Hershberger of the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services; Baltimore Police Commissioner Anthony W. Batts; and Baltimore City State’s Attorney Gregg L. Bernstein. This case was developed as a result of the efforts of the Maryland Prison Task Force, formed in 2011 with the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services, local, state and federal law enforcement agencies, and prosecutors. The Task Force has met regularly for over three years, generating recommendations to reform prison procedures and producing leads that have been pursued by state, local and federal criminal investigators. The investigation is continuing. According to court documents, BGF has been the dominant gang at the BCDC, and in several connected facilities, including the Baltimore Central Booking Intake Center (BCBIC), the Women’s Detention Center, which houses many men, and in the Jail Industries Building. Braswell, a correctional officer at BCDC, admitted that in 2012 and 2013, she helped smuggle contraband, including drugs such as Percocet, into BCDC for further distribution by BGF members. Other correctional officers helped Braswell smuggle the contraband into BCDC. Twenty-four of the 44 defendants charged in the conspiracy have pleaded guilty, including 14 correctional officers. One defendant has died. Trial is scheduled to begin November 17, 2014 for the remaining defendants. U.S. Attorney Rosenstein recognized the efforts of the other members of the Maryland Prison Task Force, including: Colonel Marcus L. Brown, Superintendent of the Maryland State Police; Chief Mark A. Magaw of the Prince George’s County Police Department; United States Marshal Johnny Hughes; Special Agent in Charge Karl C. Colder of the Drug Enforcement Administration—Washington Field Division; Tom Carr, Director of the Washington-Baltimore High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area; and Dave Engel, Executive Director of the Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI, Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services, Baltimore Police Department, and Maryland Prison Task Force, for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant United States Attorneys Robert R. Harding and Ayn B. Ducao, who are prosecuting this Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force case.
corruption Earlier today, Rafael Astacio, a former detective with the New York City Police Department, pleaded guilty in Central Islip federal court to conspiracy to commit interstate transportation of stolen property and filing a fraudulent tax return. When sentenced, Astacio faces up to eight years in prison, a forfeiture money judgment of $200,000, and a fine of up to $500,000. The charges were announced by Loretta E. Lynch, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, Kathleen M. Rice, Nassau County District Attorney, George Venizelos, Assistant Director-in-Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation, New York Field Office (FBI), Thomas C. Krumpter, Acting Commissioner, Nassau County Police Department (NCPD), Shantelle P. Kitchen, Acting Special Agent-in-Charge, Internal Revenue Service- Criminal Investigation, New York (IRS), and William J. Bratton, Commissioner, New York City Police Department (NYPD). “For three years, Astacio and his band of thieves invaded people’s homes and businesses and stole millions of dollars. What makes Astacio’s crimes even more disgraceful is that he committed them while he was a NYPD detective who took an oath to protect and serve our community,” stated United States Attorney Lynch. “Today’s plea demonstrates that no one is above the rule of law. I want to thank my law enforcement partners for their hard work and unwavering commitment to ensure that Astacio was brought to justice.” According to the indictment, court filings,and statements at today’s proceeding, between 2009 and 2012, Astacio was a member of a burglary crew that committed approximately three dozen commercial burglaries and ten residential burglaries in the Eastern District of New York stealing approximately $10,000,000 in cash and property. The crew used traditional burglary tools, such as blow torches, crowbars, wire cutters, and sledge hammers, as well as modern technology, including cell phone jammers and police scanners, to commit those burglaries. In addition, they often conducted surveillance of their burglary victims to determine when the victims would be out of their homes and businesses. On at least one occasion, they even installed a tracking device on a victim’s car to assist in that endeavor. On April 29, 2010, Astacio’s co-conspirators burglarized a business in Plainview, New York, entering that commercial establishment while Astacio and another co-conspirator monitored a police scanner and acted as lookouts. Astacio’s co-conspirators spent approximately three and a half hours in the business and stole more than 45,000 pairs of Under Armour, Hobie, and other sunglasses that were worth approximately $3,000,000. After the burglary, Astacio and his co-conspirators transported the stolen property across state lines and sold some of the sunglasses on the Internet. In another instance, Astacio and his crew stole approximately $2,000,000 in cash from a plastic surgeon’s office located in Nassau County. The government’s case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Christopher C. Caffarone and Special Assistant United States Attorney Rick Whelan. The Defendant: RAFAEL ASTACIO Age: 41 Copiague, New York Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption In El Paso this morning, former El Paso County Assistant District Attorney Antonio Reyes was sentenced to 33 months in federal prison in connection with a bribery scheme announced FBI Special Agent in Charge Douglas E. Lindquist, El Paso Division. In addition to the prison term, United States District Judge Kathleen Cardone ordered that Reyes pay a $500 fine and be placed on supervised release for a period of three years after completing his prison term. On April 21, 2014, Reyes pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud and the deprivation of honest services. By pleading guilty, Reyes admitted that from March 30, 2011, until April 15, 2011, he conspired with others through text messaging to accept cash bribes in exchange for dismissing pending criminal cases. “Today’s sentencing of Mr. Reyes demonstrates the FBI’s unwavering commitment to the citizens of El Paso that we will vigorously investigate allegations of public corruption in our community and bring those responsible to justice. The FBI will not allow those who are placed in a position to protect its citizens to make self serving decisions that put the public at risk,” stated FBI Special Agent in Charge Douglas E. Lindquist. Assistant United States Attorneys William F. Lewis and Donna S. Miller prosecuted this case on behalf of the Government.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—Rafael Cordero, 53, of Philadelphia, was sentenced today to 180 months in prison for interfering with the federal drug investigation of the Christian Serrano/Edwin Medina Drug Trafficking Organizations (“DTOs”). Cordero, who at the time was a 23-year veteran of the Philadelphia Police Department, provided sensitive law enforcement information about drug investigations to his half-brother, David Garcia, a member of the Serrano/Medina DTOs. Cordero was convicted on December 3, 2013. Cordero told his half-brother about a surveillance camera put up by the DEA to monitor activities occurring at a garage, located at 538 East Indiana Street in Philadelphia, used by the Medina DTO. When the FBI and DEA executed search warrants at several locations associated with the Serrano/Medina DTOs, including the garage, Cordero, after being informed about the searches by his half-brother and without having any official reason to do so, went to the search location on East Indiana Street and began looking in the windows of the garage. When confronted by law enforcement and brought inside the location, Cordero misrepresented his reason for being at the location and offered to assist with the search. At no time did Cordero provide his name to law enforcement. Immediately after leaving the search location, Cordero placed a call to David Garcia and shared with him, among other things, how many law enforcement officers were conducting the search and what areas of the garage they were searching. Garcia removed a DVR tape that law enforcement had inadvertently failed to seize during the search and viewed it to see if Cordero was recorded at the garage at the time of the search, which he was. At no time did Cordero inform law enforcement that David Garcia had possession of the video tape. When questioned by federal agents, Cordero denied giving information to Garcia regarding the surveillance camera, denied knowing of anyone associated with the Indiana Street garage and denied having spoken to David Garcia about the search at the garage. In addition to the prison term, U.S. District Court Judge Paul S. Diamond ordered a $5,000 fine and three years of supervised release. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Drug Enforcement Administration, and the Philadelphia Police Department. It was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Kevin Brenner and Maureen McCartney.
corruption COLUMBUS, OH—A federal grand jury has indicted four people, alleging that they offered and accepted bribes and kickbacks as part of a public corruption conspiracy in their roles as managers and a consultant for Arise! Academy, a charter school in Dayton, Ohio. Carter M. Stewart, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Ohio, Kevin Cornelius, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine whose office oversees the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation (BCI) announced the indictment today. The indictment charges Shane K. Floyd, 42, Strongsville, Ohio, who served as superintendent of Arise, Carl L. Robinson, 47, Durham, North Carolina, who operated an educational consulting business called Global Educational Consultants, and Arise board members Christopher D. Martin, 44, Springfield, Ohio and Kristal N. Screven, aka Kristal Allen, 38, Dayton, Ohio. The indictment alleges that Floyd, Martin and Screven solicited and accepted bribes from Robinson in exchange for awarding a lucrative, unbid consulting contract to Global. The indictment says Arise paid Global $420,919 over 12 months starting in October 2008 at a time when Arise had difficulty making payments to other vendors and staff. In exchange for the consulting contract, Robinson paid Floyd more than $5,000 in cash, gave Martin cash and a trip to Las Vegas, and bribed Screven with cash and payments for a school security services company she and her husband owned. All four are charged with conspiracy, a crime punishable by up to five years in prison, and with aiding and abetting federal programs bribery, which is punishable by up to ten years in prison. In addition, Floyd, Screven and Martin are each charged with one count of making false statements, punishable by up to five years’ imprisonment. Screven is also charged with one count of witness tampering for allegedly telling a witness to lie to the grand jury investigating the case. Witness tampering is punishable by up to 20 years in prison. All counts also carry potential fines of up to $250,000. The indictment also seeks a total of $420,919 in forfeiture that the defendants will have to pay if they are convicted. The amount represents the money derived from the crimes. Floyd, Robinson and Martin will be summoned to appear in federal court. Screven surrendered to members of the FBI’s Central Ohio Public Corruption Task Force, which includes special agents from the FBI and Ohio BCI, today. She will receive an initial appearance today before a federal magistrate in Dayton. Senior U.S. District Judge James L. Graham will preside over the case. Arise! Academy was an Ohio Community School, commonly known as a charter school, which operated with federal funds provided through the state of Ohio. U.S. Attorney Stewart commended the investigation by the FBI’s Central Ohio Public Corruption Task Force and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Doug Squires and Heather Hill, who are prosecuting the case. An indictment merely contains allegations, and the defendants are presumed innocent unless proven guilty in a court of law. Follow the FBI’s Cincinnati Field Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s Cincinnati Field Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption BATON ROUGE, LA—United States Attorney Walt Green announced today another conviction in the ongoing federal and state investigation into corruption at the Bureau of Auditing and Compliance Services for the Louisiana Department of Children and Family Services (DCFS). The DCFS has cooperated fully and provided valuable assistance with the investigation. COREY S. POLK, age 33, of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, pled guilty today before Judge James J. Brady to a Bill of Information charging him with theft from a federally funded entity, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 666(a)(1)(A), and POLK admitted to the forfeiture allegation. He faces up to 10 years’ imprisonment, up to three years of supervised release following imprisonment, a fine up to $250,000, restitution to the victim, and forfeiture of the proceeds of his criminal activity. His sentencing date has not yet been set. POLK was employed with DCFS’s Bureau of Auditing and Compliance Services, which was responsible for safeguarding assets against theft and unauthorized use, for ensuring that transactions were properly authorized and recorded, and for ensuring compliance with management policies and federal and state laws and regulations. During the period he was employed with this department, DCFS received over a billion dollars annually in federal funds. At today’s hearing, POLK admitted to submitting fraudulent reimbursement receipts to receive money for official state travel that did not occur. The fake receipts that were submitted were signed both by POLK and by DCFS Audit Director, Delrice Augustus, who pled guilty to his involvement in the scheme on May 28, 2014. When the requested amount of reimbursement would be received, POLK and Augustus would split the fraudulent payments. POLK also admitted to using state purchase cards to pay for hotel suites in New Orleans for personal use and not for official state business. A third DCFS state auditor involved in this scheme, Kaneasha L. Goston, pled guilty June 19, 2014. U.S. Attorney Green stated: “The United States Attorney’s Office, along with our state and federal partners, are committed to safeguarding all types of programs that are taken advantage of by fraudsters. This case is a great example of federal and state agencies working together effectively.” This matter is being handled by the United States Attorney’s Office, the Louisiana State Police, the Louisiana Inspector General’s Office, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. This matter is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Corey R. Amundson, who serves as the First Assistant and Chief of the Criminal Division, and Special Assistant United States Attorney J. Brad Casey.
corruption A former City of Detroit police officer was sentenced to prison today for leaking sensitive and confidential law enforcement information to a drug trafficker, U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade announced today. McQuade was joined in the announcement by FBI Special Agent in Charge Paul M. Abbate and DEA Special Agent in Charge James Allen. During a hearing before U.S. District Judge John Corbett O’Meara, Lamar Coody, 35, of Detroit, Michigan, was sentenced to twelve months in prison and one year of supervised release on his plea of guilty to misprision of a felony. During an FBI and DEA investigation, Coody was captured over a court-authorized wiretap leaking confidential information to a Detroit-based multi-kilogram cocaine-trafficker. Coody leaked the information while he was a sworn City of Detroit police officer. Included among the information leaked by Coody to the cocaine dealer was the fact that a Detroit police narcotics squad was investigating the dealer, and that the police had an informant deep within the dealer’s organization. In addition, Coody fixed six traffic tickets for the drug dealer, helped identify police surveillance vehicles, and provided advice to the dealer about how to explain away cash proceeds from drug sales. In return, Coody borrowed the drug trafficker’s Corvette, Range Rover, and Cadillac Escalade, borrowed money, and was wined and dined by the dealer. Coody was not directly involved in transporting or dealing drugs or drug proceeds. Deshon Catchings, the drug trafficker who received the leaked information from Coody, was previously sentenced by Judge O’Meara to 151 months in prison for his cocaine trafficking. Six other defendants who participated in Catchings’ drug trafficking organization also have pleaded guilty and been sentenced to prison. “By leaking information to a drug dealer under investigation, this officer jeopardized the investigation and the safety of the investigators,” McQuade said. “Officers who breach their duty to serve the public will be held accountable.” The case was investigated by agents of the FBI and the DEA. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys David A. Gardey, Steven Cares, and B. Michael Ortwein.
corruption WASHINGTON—Roderic J. Smith, 50, the co-founder and former president of a government contracting company, was sentenced yesterday to 48 months in prison, followed by one year of supervised release, for conspiracy to bribe public officials. Smith was ordered to forfeit $175,000. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, United States Attorney Dana J. Boente, for the Eastern District of Virginia, Special Agent in Charge Robert Craig of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS) Mid-Atlantic Field Office, Acting Executive Assistant Director Charles T. May, Jr., of the Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS) Atlantic Operations, and Special Agent in Charge Royce E. Curtin of the FBI’s Norfolk Field Office made the announcement today after sentencing by United States District Judge Henry Coke Morgan, Jr. of the Eastern District of Virginia. On March 5, 2014, Smith pleaded guilty to a criminal information. According to court documents, Smith was the co-founder and president of a contracting company located in Chesapeake, Virginia, that sought contracting business from the United States Navy Military Sealift Command. In approximately November 2004, Smith joined an extensive bribery conspiracy that spanned four years, involved multiple co-conspirators, including two different companies, and resulted in the payment of more than $265,000 in cash bribes, among other things of value, to two public officials performing work for the Military Sealift Command, Kenny E. Toy and Scott B. Miserendino, Sr. In exchange for the bribe payments, Smith’s business, referred to as Company A in court documents, received lucrative business from the Military Sealift Command that amounted to approximately $3 million in task orders during the time period of the conspiracy. As part of his guilty plea, Smith also admitted to engaging in a scheme to conceal his criminal activity. According to the plea agreement, Smith admitted to paying more than $85,000 to his business partner, Dwayne A. Hardman, in an attempt to prevent Hardman from reporting the bribery scheme to law enforcement authorities. Earlier this year, four other individuals pleaded guilty in connection with the bribery scheme. On Feb. 12, 2014, Kenny Toy, the former Afloat Programs Manager for the Military Sealift Command’s N6 Command, Control, Communication, and Computer Systems Directorate, pleaded guilty to accepting bribes from Smith and others. On Feb. 18, 2014, Smith’s business partner, Dwayne A. Hardman, pleaded guilty to bribery. On Feb. 19, 2014 and April 4, 2014, respectively, Smith’s associate, Michael P. McPhail, and another Smith associate, Adam C. White, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery. On May 23, 2014, a grand jury in the Eastern District of Virginia indicted two individuals in connection with the bribery scheme, Scott B. Miserendino, Sr., a former government contractor who performed work for the Military Sealift Command, and Timothy S. Miller, a businessman whose company sought contracting business from the Military Sealift Command. The indictment charges Miserendino with one count of conspiracy to commit bribery, one count of bribery, one count of conspiracy to obstruct a criminal investigation and to tamper with a witness, and one count of obstruction of a criminal investigation. The indictment charges Miller with one count of conspiracy to commit bribery and two counts of bribery. The trial on these charges is scheduled to begin on Sept. 30, 2014, before Chief Judge Rebecca Beach Smith. The charges in the indictment are merely accusations, and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. The case was investigated by the FBI, NCIS and DCIS. The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorney Emily Rae Woods of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen W. Haynie of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia.
corruption WASHINGTON—Jeff Smith, 40, of Washington, D.C., a former candidate for the Council of the District of Columbia, pled guilty today to a felony charge for filing a false and misleading report with the District of Columbia’s Office of Campaign Finance that concealed campaign contributions in excess of those permitted under D.C. campaign finance laws. The guilty plea was announced by U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen Jr., Valerie Parlave, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office, and Thomas J. Kelly, Special Agent in Charge of the Washington Field Office of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI). Smith is the second candidate to plead guilty to charges in recent weeks. Kelvin Robinson, 53, pled guilty on June 3, 2014, in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia to a charge of conspiring to violate District of Columbia campaign finance laws by defrauding the District of Columbia’s Office of Campaign Finance. He is awaiting sentencing. Smith also entered his plea in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. The Honorable Anita Josey-Herring scheduled sentencing for Aug. 28, 2014. The charge of making a false statement or report carries a statutory maximum of five years in prison and potential financial penalties. Under the Court’s voluntary sentencing guidelines, the parties have agreed that Smith faces a range of six to 24 months in prison, or, possibly, probation. The charge involves contributions to Smith’s 2010 campaign for the Ward 1 seat on the Council of the District of Columbia. Smith admitted that more than $140,000 was secretly channeled to his campaign from businessman Jeffrey E. Thompson. Smith lost the election. Thompson is the former chairman, chief executive officer, and majority owner of Thompson, Cobb, Bazilio and Associates (TCBA), a corporation that provided accounting, management, consulting, and tax services. He also is the former chairman, chief executive officer, and owner of D.C. Healthcare Systems, Inc. (DCHSI), an investment holding and for-profit corporation. Both companies generated millions of dollars in government contracts. Thompson and six others earlier pled guilty to charges involving Thompson’s illegal contributions to numerous federal and District of Columbia campaigns. In addition to Robinson, who also admitted receiving excess contributions from Thompson, the others who have pled guilty include Eugenia C. Harris, a business owner in the District of Columbia; Lee A. Calhoun, an executive for TCBA; Stanley Straughter, the owner of a business based in Philadelphia; Vernon Hawkins, who was a volunteer advisor in 2010 for a 2010 mayoral campaign; and Troy White, the owner of a marketing company based in New York. Another person, former District of Columbia Council member Michael A. Brown, pled guilty to charges in an unrelated bribery investigation. In those proceedings, he publicly admitted that his campaign committees had secretly received money from Thompson. As part of Thompson’s guilty plea, on March 10, 2014, he agreed to cooperate fully in an ongoing investigation. No date has been set for his sentencing. ** “Three months ago, Jeff Thompson’s guilty plea pulled back the curtain on widespread corruption that tainted election after election, year after year in D.C. politics,” said U.S. Attorney Machen. “Today Jeff Smith became the third candidate to stand before a judge and confess to taking Thompson’s secret campaign cash. We commend Jeff Smith for acknowledging his misconduct and will press forward with our efforts to hold accountable all those who participated in under-the-table deals with Jeff Thompson.” “Today, Mr. Smith admitted to accepting illegal contributions to his campaign for D.C. Council and to filing a report which concealed these illegal in-kind contributions to the D.C. Office of Campaign Finance,” said Assistant Director in Charge Parlave. “Along with our law enforcement partners, the FBI remains vigilant to abuses of campaign finance laws to protect the citizens of the District of Columbia from schemes within the electoral process.” ** According to a statement of offense submitted as part of today’s guilty plea, from at least December 2009 through December 2010, Smith, Thompson and others acted to make and to receive – and to conceal – campaign contributions in excess of those permitted under the District of Columbia Campaign Act. Smith admitted that Thompson, with his knowledge, provided more than $140,000 of in-kind contributions, contributions which were concealed from the Office of Campaign Finance. Smith provided a budget to Thompson in March 2010, seeking $140,975 for voter registration and get-out-the-vote efforts for his campaign. Then, from March 2010 until September 2010, Thompson used funds, via TCBA and DCHSI, to provide more than $140,000 in coordination with and in support of Smith’s campaign committee. At least part of this money was spent on campaign services and materials. The District of Columbia Campaign Act imposes limits on the amount of money that can be contributed to a District of Columbia candidate and that candidate’s principal campaign committee. It also prohibits any person or corporation from making a contribution in the name of another, including by reimbursement. Finally, it requires principal campaign committees to file periodic reports of receipts and disbursements. The law limits the amount that an individual or entity can contribute in the aggregate in the primary and general elections of a candidate seeking election to a Ward seat to $500. In his plea, Smith admitted that, acting on behalf of his campaign committee, he filed, that is, authorized to be filed, a false and misleading report to the D.C. Office of Campaign Finance in December 2010. The report concealed the excessive and unreported in-kind contributions provided directly and indirectly by Thompson. In announcing the guilty plea, U.S. Attorney Machen, Assistant Director in Charge Parlave, and Special Agent in Charge Kelly commended the work of those who investigated the case from the FBI’s Washington Field Office and IRS-CI. They also expressed appreciation for the work of Assistant U.S. Attorneys Michael K. Atkinson, Jonathan P. Hooks, Ellen Chubin Epstein, Lionel André, and Ephraim “Fry” Wernick, of the Fraud and Public Corruption Section of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia, who are prosecuting cases in the investigation. Finally, they acknowledged the efforts of others who worked on the case from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, including Deborah Connor, Chief of the Fraud and Public Corruption Section, as well as Criminal Investigators Matthew J. Kutz, Mark Crawford, Melissa Matthews, and Durand Odom; Forensic Accountants Crystal Boodoo and Maria Boodoo; Paralegal Specialists Krishawn Graham, Tasha Harris, and Corrine Kleinman; Former Paralegal Specialists Shanna Hays and Nicole Wattelet; and Legal Assistant Angela Lawrence. 14-147 ##
corruption KANSAS CITY, MO—Tammy Dickinson, United States Attorney for the Western District of Missouri, announced that the former treasurer of both the Wellington Napoleon Fire Protection District and Special Road District was sentenced in federal court today for a fraud scheme in which he embezzled more than $1.5 million from the two districts. Leland Ray Kolkmeyer, 59, of Wellington, Mo., was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Gary A. Fenner to three years in federal prison without parole. Kolkmeyer must surrender to the Bureau of Prisons to begin serving his sentenced on Aug. 7, 2014. The court also ordered Kolkmeyer, who has already paid $1 million in restitution, to pay an additional $530,159 in restitution, which represents the total amount he embezzled from the two districts. On Nov. 20, 2013, Kolkmeyer pleaded guilty to two counts of mail fraud. Kolkmeyer was elected treasurer of both the road district and the fire district in 1998. He resigned from both positions in February 2013. The offices of both the fire district and the road district are located in Wellington. Kolkmeyer embezzled $939,485 from the Wellington Napoleon Special Road District and $590,674 the Wellington Napoleon Fire Protection District, for a total theft of $1,530,159. According to court documents, Kolkmeyer told investigators that he used the money he had stolen by doing $50,000-$60,000 in remodeling of his house. Kolkmeyer also stated he purchased various vehicles over the course of the time that he would not have been able to purchase without the money. Kolkmeyer also stated he helped his daughter remodel her home for about $25,000-$30,000. Kolkmeyer stated he helped with his son’s wedding expenses and estimated that each wedding for his children cost $40,000-$50,000. Kolkmeyer also told investigators that he did not declare any of the stolen income to the IRS. Road District Fraud Scheme Kolkmeyer admitted that he stole approximately $900,000 from the road district from August 1998 to Feb. 12, 2013. Kolkmeyer made checks payable from the road district’s bank account to himself and others for his own benefit without the knowledge, authorization or consent of the road district. The government alleges that Kolkmeyer fraudulently transferred $939,485 from the road district’s bank account to his own bank account or to pay bills on his behalf. Kolkmeyer, in his position as treasurer of the road district, made false statements and material omissions to the Special Road District Board concerning the checks that were made payable to himself and to others on his behalf. Fire District Fraud Scheme Kolkmeyer also admitted that he stole more than $500,000 from the fire district from August 1998 to Feb. 17, 2013. The government alleges that Kolkmeyer fraudulently transferred $590,674 from the fire district bank accounts to his own bank account or to pay bills on his behalf. Kolkmeyer, in his position as treasurer of the fire district, made false statements and material omissions to the Fire Protection District Board concerning the checks that were made payable to himself and to others on his behalf. This case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Paul S. Becker. It was investigated by the FBI.
corruption BATON ROUGE, LA—United States Attorney Walt Green announced today another conviction in the ongoing federal and state investigation into corruption at the Bureau of Auditing and Compliance Services for the Louisiana Department of Children and Family Services (DCFS). DCFS leadership has cooperated fully with the investigation and provided valuable assistance. KANEASHA L. GOSTON, age 38, of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, pled guilty yesterday afternoon before U.S. District Judge James J. Brady to theft from a federally-funded entity, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 666(a)(1)(A). She faces up to 10 years’ imprisonment, a fine up to $250,000, forfeiture of the proceeds from the offense, restitution, and up to three years of supervised release following a term of imprisonment. A sentencing date has not yet been set. GOSTON was employed with DCFS’s Bureau of Auditing and Compliance Services which was responsible for safeguarding assets against theft and unauthorized use; ensuring that transactions were properly authorized and recorded; and ensuring compliances with management policies, as well as federal and state laws and regulations. During the period she was employed with this department, DCFS received over a billion dollars annually in federal funds. At yesterday’s hearing, GOSTON admitted to submitting fraudulent reimbursement receipts to receive money for official state travel that did not occur. The fake receipts which were submitted were signed both by GOSTON and by DCFS Audit Director, Delrice Augustus, who also recently pled guilty as part of this scheme. When the requested amount of reimbursement would be received, GOSTON and Augustus would split the fraudulent payments. Augustus has been charged and pled guilty for his role in this and related fraudulent conduct. U.S. Attorney Green stated: “Public corruption will continue to be a priority for this office, particularly when such corruption involves officials responsible for the proper handling of millions in federal funds. In waging this fight, we are encouraged by the active cooperation and assistance provided by the DCFS leadership in this investigation. The vast majority of public servants at DCFS are honest and hardworking individuals who despise corruption. All public servants should be vigilant against corruption and report wrongdoing immediately.” Louisiana Inspector General Stephen Street commented: “Those who abuse positions of trust in order to steal from the taxpayers should know that the risk of criminal prosecution is high. This guilty plea is the latest example of that.” This matter is being handled by the United States Attorney’s Office, the Louisiana State Police, the Louisiana Inspector General’s Office, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. This matter is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Corey R. Amundson and Special Assistant United States Attorney J. Brad Casey.
corruption ALBUQUERQUE—A federal grand jury sitting in San Antonio, Texas, has indicted Angus Kelly McGinty, 50, a former Texas state district court judge in Bexar County, Texas, on bribery, extortion and wire fraud charges, announced Damon P. Martinez, U.S. Attorney for the District of New Mexico, and Christopher Combs, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI’s San Antonio Division. The 15-count indictment, which was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Texas late yesterday afternoon, charges McGinty with one count of conspiracy to commit federal programs bribery, one count of federal programs bribery, one count of extortion under color of official right, and 12 counts of honest services wire fraud. At the time of the events underlying the charges in the indictment, McGinty was a state district court judge in the criminal division of the 144th Judicial District Court in Bexar County, Texas. The indictment generally alleges that between January 2013 and September 2013, McGinty solicited and accepted bribes from an attorney who appeared before him in exchange for favorable rulings for the attorney’s clients. McGinty resigned from the bench on February 14, 2014. In announcing the indictment, U.S. Attorney Damon P. Martinez said, “The outcome of criminal cases should be determined by the evidence and the law, not by paid-for bias. When citizens cannot have faith in the very people who are sworn to uphold the law, confidence in our judicial system is shaken. The Justice Department is committed to restoring that faith by rooting out corruption wherever it may be found.” “A fair and impartial criminal justice system is one of the cornerstones of our democracy,” said FBI Special Agent in Charge Christopher Combs. “Judges, in particular, are expected to protect the public’s trust in the fairness of the judicial system. Investigations such as the one leading to today’s indictment are crucial to deter corrupt officials influenced by greed from breaking their oath to uphold the rule of law. This case should serve as a strong warning to those who might consider similar alleged behavior. No one is above the law, and everyone is accountable for their misdeeds.” According to the indictment’s conspiracy count, from Jan. 2013 through Sept. 2013, McGinty allegedly solicited and accepted bribes from Alberto Acevedo, Jr., an attorney in San Antonio, in exchange for favorable judicial rulings that benefited Acevedo and his clients. The indictment alleges that Acevedo’s bribes to McGinty included cash, car repairs, arranging the sale of McGinty’s vehicle, and registering a vehicle purchased by McGinty. In exchange, McGinty allegedly provided the favorable judicial rulings requested by Acevedo, including lenient sentences and less restrictive conditions of release for Acevedo’s clients. McGinty allegedly received gifts, payments, and other things of value totaling more than $6,655 from Acevedo during the course of the conspiracy. Count two of the indictment alleges that McGinty corruptly solicited and accepted bribes in the form of car repairs and services to vehicles from Acevedo in exchange for using his official position to benefit Acevedo and his clients. Count three alleges that McGinty acting under color of official right in extorting and obtaining property to which he was not entitled from Acevedo. Counts four through 15 charge McGinty with engaging in a scheme to defraud the State of Texas and Bexar County and their citizens of their right to his honest services by soliciting and accepting bribes from Acevedo in exchange for using his official position to benefit Acevedo and his clients. Each of the 12 counts alleges a specific wire communication by which McGinty allegedly perpetuated the fraudulent scheme. If convicted on the charges in the indictment, McGinty faces a statutory maximum penalty of 20 years in federal prison and a $250,000 fine. The charges against McGinty are merely accusations, and he is presumed innocent unless found guilty in a court of law. Acevedo pled guilty on March 17, 2014, to a felony information charging him with bribery involving a program receiving federal funds. In entering his guilty plea, Acevedo admitted that he corruptly influenced a state court judge by giving him things of value. In his plea agreement, Acevedo admitted giving gifts, payments and other things of value totaling more than $6,655 to the state court judge in exchange for favorable judicial rulings that benefitted him and his clients. At sentencing, Acevedo faces a maximum statutory penalty of ten years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Acevedo is released on bond pending his sentencing hearing, which has yet to be scheduled. U.S. Attorney Damon P. Martinez praised the investigative work of the San Antonio Division of the FBI, which he noted is ongoing. The prosecution of this case in federal court in San Antonio, Texas, is being handled by Special Attorneys Mark A. Saltman and Brock E. Taylor of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of New Mexico. The U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Western District of Texas is recused.
corruption TAMPA, FL—United States Attorney A. Lee Bentley, III announces the arrest of Franklin C. Barnes (48, Winter Haven) on a federal complaint charging him with theft of mail and government property in the form of U.S. Treasury checks. Barnes made his initial appearance before U.S. Magistrate Judge Thomas G. Wilson today, in Tampa, and was released on a $25,000 personal surety bond. According to the complaint, Barnes stole at least three U.S. Treasury checks from the mail that were addressed to an address on his postal route, and sold them to an undercover law enforcement agent. A criminal complaint is merely a formal charge that a defendant has committed a violation of the federal criminal laws, and every defendant is presumed innocent unless, and until, proven guilty. This case was part of an ongoing joint investigative effort by the United States Postal Inspection Service and the United States Postal Service – Office of Inspector General, Internal Revenue Service – Criminal Investigations, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Florida Department of Law Enforcement, and the Lakeland Police Department. It will be prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Kelley Howard-Allen.
corruption A former clerk in the Vital Records Division of the Wayne County Clerk’s Office pleaded guilty to bribery charges, U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade announced. Joining McQuade in the announcement were Special Agent in Charge Paul M. Abbate, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Detroit Field Office, and Marlon Miller, Special Agent in Charge, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Homeland Security Investigations. Lorris Upshaw, III, 30, of Detroit, a clerk in the Wayne County Clerk’s Office during 2009 and 2010, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Robert H. Cleland to accepting bribes in exchange for issuing Concealed Pistol Licenses to individuals who were not otherwise eligible to receive such licenses. Upshaw accepted money from convicted felons and performed acts within his official duties as a clerk with the Wayne County Clerk’s Office in exchange for issuing Concealed Pistol Licenses to felons who were not eligible to obtain such licenses lawfully. A sentencing date has been set for October 23, 2014. United States Attorney McQuade said, “This defendant breached his duties and risked public safety for his own profit. Government employees who violate the public trust will be held accountable.” The case was investigated by agents of the FBI and the DHS. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Hala Jarbou.
corruption WASHINGTON—Kristopher Michael Montemayor, a county commissioner for Precinct 1 of the Webb County Commissioners Court in Texas, pleaded guilty to bribery today. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Kenneth Magidson for the Southern District of Texas, and Special Agent in Charge Christopher H. Combs of the FBI’s San Antonio Division made the announcement. Montemayor admitted that, while serving as county commissioner, he solicited and accepted bribes in exchange for promising to perform official acts. Specifically, Montemayor admitted that he accepted three separate bribe payments totaling $11,000, as well as over $2,700 in electronics equipment, from a businessman who, unbeknownst to Montemayor, was an undercover law enforcement agent. Montemayor admitted that, in exchange for the money and the equipment, he promised to take official action to promote the business interests of the undercover agent. Additionally, Montemayor admitted to accepting the use of a new 2012 Ford F-150 truck, which costs approximately $37,015, in exchange for promising to provide government jobs to both the vehicle owner and his spouse. As a result of these job appointments, the vehicle owner and his wife received salaries of $26,000 and $45,553 from Webb County. Montemayor is scheduled to be sentenced on October 7, 2014, before U.S. District Judge Marina Garcia Marmolejo in Laredo, Texas. This case is being investigated by special agents from the Laredo Resident Agency of FBI’s San Antonio Division. This case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Emily Rae Woods and Mark J. Cipolletti of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section.
corruption COLUMBIA—United States Attorney Bill Nettles stated today that Michael Todd Parker (37) of Cherokee County, South Carolina, pled guilty to one count of violating 18 U.S.C. § 666. Parker is a former deputy sheriff of the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office (CCSO). Between 2010 and 2012, Parker corruptly seized a number of illegal poker machines from local businesses and then redistributed the same illegal poker machines from which he personally benefited financially. Parker was terminated from the CCSO in 2012. The charge carries a maximum sentence of 10 years’ imprisonment, $250,000 fine, and three years of supervised release. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office, and the State Law Enforcement Division (SLED) and is assigned to Assistant United States Attorney Carrie Fisher Sherard.
corruption HATTIESBURG, MS—Michael Janus, 47, of Biloxi, was sentenced to 21 months in federal prison, followed by three years of supervised release, for theft concerning programs receiving federal funds, announced U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis and FBI Special Agent in Charge Daniel McMullen. Janus was also ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $180,000. Janus pled guilty in February, admitting that, while serving as city manager for the city of D’Iberville, he fraudulently obtained a $180,000 “finder’s fee” in connection with a $3 million grant from the Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality to the City of D’Iberville. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, with assistance from the Mississippi State Auditor’s Office. Criminal Division Chief John Dowdy, Assistant U.S. Attorney Jerry Rushing, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Jay Golden prosecuted the case.
corruption HATTIESBURG, MS—William Walker, 69, of Ocean Springs, was sentenced to 60 months in federal prison, followed by three years of supervised release, for conspiracy to commit federal program fraud, announced U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis and FBI Special Agent in Charge Daniel McMullen. He was also ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $572,689.14 and a $125,000 fine. Walker pled guilty on March 10, 2014, to conspiring with his son, Scott Walker, to divert federal grant monies in a scheme that resulted in the federal grant monies being used to unlawfully purchase Scott Walker’s personal property in Ocean Springs, Mississippi. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, with assistance from the Mississippi State Auditor’s Office. Criminal Division Chief John Dowdy, Assistant U.S. Attorney Jerry Rushing, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Jay Golden prosecuted the case.
corruption Public Corruption Update FBI Continues Efforts to Root Out Crooked Officials 06/17/14 The vast majority of public servants who work at the local, state, and federal levels of government are honest and dedicated folks who strive every day to do the right thing for their constituents, their communities, and their country. Unfortunately, there is a small subgroup of public servants who, whether elected, appointed, or contracted, are only concerned about a very specific constituency—themselves. And because this type of corruption strikes at the heart of government, eroding public confidence and undermining the strength of our democracy, the investigation of public corruption is the FBI’s top criminal priority. Currently the Bureau is working more than 4,000 public corruption cases around the nation with the help of our partners. Our investigative efforts pay off year after year—fiscal year 2013 alone saw approximately 1,200 federal indictments and informations against corrupt officials.   Public Corruption Case Roundup The FBI—often in conjunction with other federal, state, or local partners—works about 4,000 public corruption investigations at any given time. Here are a few examples of some recent cases from around the country: - San Diego: A corrupt U.S. Customs and Border Protection officer was sentenced for his role in a decade-long crime spree during which he sold his badge to alien and drug smuggling groups. More - Atlanta: Four motor vehicle department employees were indicted on charges of accepting bribes in exchange for issuing car titles. More - Chicago: A county official was sentenced for steering contracts in return for nearly $35,000 in kickbacks. More - Little Rock: A county treasurer was indicted on charges of embezzling funds from his own office. More - San Francisco: A state senator was among 26 charged with various federal offenses, including firearms trafficking, money laundering, murder-for-hire, drug distribution, and wire fraud. More - Charlotte: A mayor was arrested after an undercover operation during which he solicited and accepted bribes in exchange for the use of his official position. More - Indianapolis: A mayor and his wife were indicted on wire fraud charges related to financial transactions involving his campaign finance account. More - Los Angeles: A building inspector was sentenced to federal prison for taking tens of thousands of dollars in bribes. More   Investigating the corruption of federal personnel—in particular, trusted officials and employees with access to sensitive information—is our number one public corruption priority because of the potential impact on U.S. national security. But corrupt state and local officials—who, like their federal counterparts, take an oath to serve—can seriously harm public trust in government. They can also jeopardize public safety and waste millions of taxpayer dollars. The FBI is uniquely situated to investigate public corruption—we’ve got plenty of experience and the resources to run the kind of long-term, complex investigations that corruption activities often require. To uncover secretive activities like bribery, embezzlement, racketeering, kickbacks, and money laundering, we use sophisticated investigative techniques that can give us a front row seat to handshakes, money exchanges, or descriptions of corrupt schemes directly from the mouths of the officials involved. These techniques—which we’ve been using successfully for years against organized crime—include electronic surveillance, undercover operations, and informants/cooperating witnesses. However, investigating public corruption is an FBI commitment as old as the Bureau itself. When we were founded in 1908, our responsibilities included the investigation of land fraud, which often involved corrupt public officials. Because of the nature of public corruption, we work closely with the Department of Justice’s Public Integrity Section and U.S. Attorney’s offices to ensure laws, guidelines, and protocols are strictly adhered to during investigations. Where do our cases come from? Sometimes from credible information from a Bureau source. Or we might uncover something about unrelated corruption activities during a public corruption investigation and spin that off into a new case. We receive complaints from citizens. Disgruntled participants in corruption schemes sometimes come to us and tell us what they know. And occasionally, the corrupt official might self-report, hoping for leniency from the government. And if a determination is made that the reported activity doesn’t rise to the level of federal prosecution, we can and do refer cases to state attorneys general offices or local prosecutors. Public corruption, though, is not just an American problem—it plagues countries around the world. So the FBI offers training to foreign law enforcement, prosecutors, and judges through our International Law Enforcement Academy in Budapest, several other international academies, and our National Academy program at Quantico, Virginia. In the U.S. and abroad, the FBI is doing everything we can to help ensure that the good name of the vast majority of public servants is not besmirched by a corrupt few. Resources: - More on our public corruption program
corruption COLUMBIA, SC—United States Attorney Bill Nettles stated today that James R. Metts (68), of Lexington, South Carolina, was charged by a federal grand jury in a 10-count indictment. According to allegations in the indictment, Metts accepted bribes from friends in return for using his position, power, and influence as sheriff to interfere with the proper identification and processing of certain illegal aliens detained at the Lexington County Detention Center. Two others, Danny Frazier (46) and Greg Leon (47), both of Lexington, South Carolina, have been charged by the state grand jury with bribing Metts. United States Attorney Bill Nettles was joined in making the announcement by South Carolina Attorney General Alan Wilson, Special Agent in Charge David A. Thomas of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Assistant Special Agent in Charge Kenneth R. Burkhart of Homeland Security Investigations, and Chief Mark Keel of the State Law Enforcement Division. “Public corruption at any level will not be tolerated,” said United States Attorney Bill Nettles. “These indictments are a product of a new team at the United States Attorney’s Office whose goal is to use an unprecedented level of cooperation with state and federal agencies in routing out public corruption and returning public trust to the people.” Metts was charged with conspiracy to violate federal law and interfere with government function (18 U.S.C. §371); use of interstate facility to facilitate bribery, in violation of South Carolina Code Sections 8-13-705 and 16-9-220 (18 U.S.C. §1952); use of interstate wire to defraud the citizens of Lexington County of their right to honest services (18 U.S.C. §1343, 1346); and conspiracy to harbor illegal aliens (8 U.S.C. §1324). The charge of conspiracy to violate federal law and interfere with government function carries a maximum sentence of five years and a $250,000 fine; each charge of use of interstate facility to facilitate bribery carries a maximum sentence of five years and a $250,000 fine; each charge of use of interstate wire to defraud the citizens of Lexington County of their right to honest services carries a maximum sentence of 20 years and a $250,000 fine; and the charge of conspiracy to harbor illegal aliens carries a maximum sentence of 10 years and a $250,000 fine. Additionally, these charges include a maximum term of supervised release following imprisonment of three years. This multi-agency investigation included the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Homeland Security Investigations, State Law Enforcement Division (SLED), and South Carolina Attorney General’s Office, and is assigned to Assistant United States Attorneys Nancy Wicker, Julius N. Richardson, and James H. May for prosecution. The United States Attorney stated that all charges in this indictment are merely accusations and that the defendant is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty.
corruption ATLANTA—Dwayne Tyrone Coggins and Michael Owens have been arraigned on federal charges for tipping off drug traffickers to police activity in the Griffin area. Coggins and Owens were indicted by a federal grand jury on June 11, 2014. “When called upon to assist the police, Coggins and Owens’ first instinct was to call the drug dealers to warn them,” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. “Now, they face federal charges for protecting drug dealers.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated, “Many of today’s criminal investigations are complex in nature and often involve other jurisdictions and the assistance of other agencies. While the FBI values the partnerships of those agencies that provide us with so much assistance, the criminal conduct alleged in the federal indictment of these two Spalding County firefighters cannot be tolerated.” According to United States Attorney Yates, the charges, and other information presented in court: Coggins has been employed by the Spalding County Fire Department since 1990 and, most recently, served as a battalion chief. Owens is also employed by the Spalding County Fire Department as a firefighter. Police regularly gathered at the Spalding County Fire Department before scheduled police activity such as serving arrest warrants. In April and May 2014, both Coggins and Owens warned drug dealers about law enforcement activity in the area before it occurred. They were aware of the police activity because they had been informed by law enforcement about the investigation or had seen officers gathering near the fire station before serving warrants. Police became aware that Coggins and Owens were tipping off drug traffickers to law enforcement activities during the course of an on-going drug investigation. Dwayne Tyrone Coggins, 47, and Michael Owens, 37, of Griffin, Georgia, were arraigned today before Magistrate Judge Alan J. Baverman. Members of the public are reminded that the indictment only contains charges. The defendant is presumed innocent of the charges, and it will be the government’s burden to prove the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt at trial. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Kurt R. Erskine is prosecuting the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Presse-mails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Newnan Division is http://www.justice.gov/usao/gan/.
corruption BANGOR, ME—United States Attorney Thomas E. Delahanty II announced that Carole J. Swan, 56, of Chelsea, Maine, was sentenced today in U.S. District Court in Bangor by Chief Judge John A. Woodcock, Jr. to 87 months in prison and three years of supervised release for extortion, federal tax fraud, and federal worker’s compensation fraud. She was also fined $125,000 and ordered to pay over $106,000 in restitution. On July 26, 2013, Swan was convicted on the fraud charges following a three-week jury trial. On September 17, 2013, Swan was convicted on the extortion charges following a one-week jury trial. According to the court records and trial evidence, Swan was an elected member of the Chelsea Board of Selectmen. Between January 2010 and February 2011, she used her position to extort and attempt to extort $20,000 from Frank Monroe Construction, a local construction company that plowed, salted and sanded Chelsea’s roads. She also filed false federal income tax returns for tax years 2006 through 2010 in which she under-reported about $650,000 in gross receipts and sales for her business, Swan Construction, thereby evading about $145,000 in income and self-employment taxes. She also fraudulently obtained over $75,000 in worker’s compensation benefits by failing to report, among other things, her ownership of and work for Swan Construction and a harness horse racing business, and by under-reporting the hours she worked as a selectman and assessor. In imposing sentence, Chief Judge Woodcock found that Swan obstructed justice by repeatedly, deliberately and willfully lying throughout the proceedings. Chief Judge Woodcock also noted that Swan breached her duties of honesty and trust to Chelsea and Frank Monroe and described Monroe as “a local hero” for bringing Swan to justice. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation; the Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigations Division; the Department of Homeland Security, Office of Inspector General (OIG); the U.S. Department of Labor, OIG, Office of Labor Racketeering and Fraud Investigations; the U.S. Postal Service, OIG; and the Kennebec County Sheriff’s Office.
corruption BATON ROUGE, LA—United States Attorney Walt Green announced today that federal corruption charges has been filed against a third state auditor in the ongoing federal and state investigation into the Bureau of Auditing and Compliance Services for the Louisiana Department of Children and Family Services (DCFS). DCFS leadership has cooperated fully with the investigation. Today’s Charges COREY S. POLK, age 33, of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, has been charged in a bill of information with federal program fraud, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 666(a)(1)(A). If convicted, Polk faces up to 10 years’ imprisonment, a $250,000 fine, forfeiture of the proceeds from the offense, restitution, and up to three years of supervised release following a term of imprisonment. His initial appearance and arraignment will be held on a date to be determined. Polk is charged based on his alleged conduct while employed as a managing auditor in the Special Investigations and External Audit Unit within DCFS’ Bureau of Audit and Compliance Services. In that role, Polk was responsible for handling special investigations, including those involving allegations of fraud and theft by individuals employed by DCFS, a state agency that receives more than a billion dollars in federal funding annually. The bill of information alleges that Polk and his supervisor, Audit Director Delrice Augustus, fraudulently misused government purchasing cards to obtain items for personal use, including hotel stays during Mardi Gras and NBA All-Star Weekend, and created and used fraudulent documents to request and receive reimbursement from the State of Louisiana for official travel that did not occur. Polk would allegedly sign the fraudulent reimbursement requests as the requesting employee, and Augustus would sign as the approving supervisor. The state would then pay the requested amount, which Polk and Augustus would split. Other Defendants Two other state auditors have been previously charged in this investigation. Augustus, who served as the director of the Bureau of Auditing and Compliance Services, was charged and pled guilty on May 28, 2014, to federal program fraud involving between $120,000 and $200,000. Kaneasha Goston, a former auditor within the Bureau of Auditing and Compliance Services, has been charged in a separate bill of information with federal program fraud and is scheduled for an initial appearance and arraignment on June 19, 2014. The matter is being handled by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of Louisiana, the Louisiana State Police, the Louisiana Inspector General’s Office, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The matter is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Corey R. Amundson who serves as Chief of the Criminal Division and Special Assistant United States Attorney J. Brad Casey. A bill of information is an accusation by the U.S. Attorney’s Office. The defendant is presumed innocent until and unless adjudicated guilty at trial or through a guilty plea.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida; George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office; and Manuel Orosa, Chief, City of Miami Police Department (MPD), announce that former City of Miami Police Sergeant Raul Iglesias, 41, Miami, pled guilty to one count of criminal contempt for violating a United States District Court protective order in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 401(3). In 2010, the FBI and City of Miami Police Department Internal Affairs Unit initiated an investigation of Iglesias after receiving an anonymous letter that indicated Iglesias was stealing money and drugs from his arrests. At the time, Iglesias was assigned to the Crime Suppression Unit (CSU), which targeted neighborhoods plagued with narcotics trafficking and violent crime. It was later discovered that CSU detectives in Iglesias’ unit wrote the anonymous letter. On July 19, 2012, a federal grand jury returned a nine-count indictment against Iglesias, charging him with conspiracy, violation of civil rights, possession with intent to distribute cocaine, obstruction of justice, and making false statements. As part of the discovery in that case, the government turned over to the defense a number of consensual recordings made by cooperating CSU detectives with Iglesias. In order to protect the cooperating CSU detectives and other witnesses from intimidation and harassment, the government moved for a protective order to prevent the dissemination of the discovery materials outside of the defense team which was later granted by the court. Following trial, a federal jury found Iglesias guilty on eight of the nine counts in the indictment. Iglesias was later sentenced to 48 months in prison and was ordered to surrender to the Federal Bureau of Prison on April 26, 2013, to commence serving his sentence. However, on April 24, 2013, less than two days before he was required to surrender to begin serving his sentence, Iglesias posted protected audio recordings of the undercover conversations made by cooperating CSU detectives on YouTube and LEOAFFAIRS, an Internet message board that catered to law enforcement. Both the YouTube and LEOAFFAIRS postings were titled “Miami Mice” and were posted by Iglesias using the screen name “Chivas Regal.” After the protected undercover recordings became public, various unknown individuals using fictitious screen names posted threatening or derogatory comments against the cooperating CSU detectives on the LEOAFFAIRS message board. The CSU detectives also found derogatory notes on their vehicles and in their mail boxes at work, and officers stopped responding to their calls to provide backup. Sentencing is scheduled for September 5, 2014, at 10:30 a.m., before U.S. District Judge Ursula Ungaro. At sentencing, Iglesias faces life in prison and fines of up to $250,000. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI, MPD, and the Miami Area Corruption Task Force. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Kimberly Selmore. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls.
corruption ANCHORAGE—U.S. Attorney Karen L. Loeffler announced today that two Fairbanks men were sentenced on Friday, June 6, 2014, in federal court in Fairbanks after being found guilty of wire fraud and theft from a local government receiving federal funds. Alfred Richard Ketzler, Jr., also known as “Bear” Ketzler, 57, of Fairbanks, Alaska, was sentenced to 16 months in prison, to be followed by two years of supervised release, by Chief U.S. District Court Judge Ralph R. Beistline. Ketzler pled guilty in March 2014. Ketzler has already paid restitution to the city of Tanana in the amount of $116,500. Alfred McQuestion Fabian, 62, of Fairbanks, Alaska, was sentenced to six months in prison, to be followed by two years of supervised release, by Chief U.S. District Court Judge Ralph R. Beistline. Fabian pled guilty in March 2014. Assistant U.S. Attorney Yvonne Lamoureux, who prosecuted the case, noted that according to filings with the court, Ketzler and Fabian participated in a three-year scheme to defraud and obtain money and property by means of materially false and fraudulent pretenses and representations. Specifically, Ketzler, as the city Manager for the city of Tanana, and Fabian, as the expediter for the city of Tanana, abused their positions of trust to obtain excess federal property through the Federal Personal Property Utilization Program and illegally sell the property for personal gain and convert the property for personal use. Between December 2009 and November 2012, Ketzler and Fabian received at least $122,000 in illegally obtained payments for the sales of about 11 pieces of equipment, including trucks, fork lifts, and other heavy industrial equipment. They deposited the money from the illegal sales of the property into their personal bank accounts. In sentencing Ketzler, Judge Beistline noted the need for the sentence to deter not only the defendant but also other people from abusing their positions of trust. Judge Beistline also noted that the purpose of the Federal Personal Property Utilization Program was not to enrich city managers or individuals and that the victims of the defendants’ crimes include the Federal Personal Property Utilization Program, the other native and rural communities that could have benefited from the program, and taxpayers. Kevin Feldis, First Assistant U.S. Attorney, stated that “the United States Attorney’s Office is dedicated to prosecuting those who steal from federal programs. All citizens are victims when someone steals federal property or fraudulently abuses federal programs for their own personal gain.” “This federal excess property was supposed to benefit the city of Tanana, Alaska, not be illegally sold by city officials for personal profit,” said U.S. General Services Administration Acting Inspector General Robert C. Erickson. Ms. Loeffler commends the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the General Services Administration-Office of Inspector General for conducting the investigation leading to the successful prosecution of Ketzler and Fabian.
corruption LAFAYETTE, LA—United States Attorney Stephanie A. Finley announced today that Walter O. Guillory, 51, of Lafayette, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Elizabeth Foote to 28 months in prison and one year of supervised release for receiving bribes while running two housing authorities in the Acadiana area and also for his part in a conspiracy to award bids to a preferred contractor in Opelousas. According to evidence presented at the guilty plea on February 14, 2014, Guillory served as the executive director of the Lafayette Housing Authority (LHA) from June 1998 to October 2010, and he served as executive director of the Opelousas Housing Authority (OHA) from November 2005 to November 2010. During this time period, Guillory sponsored a local baseball team. He solicited donations from various vendors and contractors of both the LHA and the OHA for “his baseball team.” From 2006 to 2010, the vendors were expected to make yearly donations in exchange for doing business with the housing authorities. Some of the contributions were spent on personal expenses and not for the baseball team. He solicited and received more than $100,000 in bribes from the vendors between 2006 and 2010. Guillory also admitted to conspiring with others to circumvent bid laws in order to award construction contracts to one company who performed construction work for OHA. They used the fake bids to make it appear that several companies were placing bids on construction projects, but in fact, there was only one company being considered. In addition, they used interstate wire communication facilities including e-mail transmissions for a variety of purposes, which involved sending and receiving e-mails related to contracts and false bids. Guillory approved these contracts with full knowledge that the bid rules, laws, and regulations were not being followed from 2007 to 2009. The Federal Bureau of Investigation and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development conducted the investigation. Assistant U.S. Attorney Kelly P. Uebinger prosecuted the case.
corruption EL DORADO, AR—Conner Eldridge, United States Attorney for the Western District of Arkansas, announced today that James Michael Hesterly, age 50, of Camden, Arkansas, pleaded guilty to one count of bribery concerning a program receiving federal funds. Hesterly and Harry Clemons Jr., age 39 of Bearden, Arkansas were indicted for a scheme to award a Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) disaster-relief contract to Clemons by rigging the bidding process in return for a contribution to Hesterly’s 2010 reelection campaign for Ouachita County Judge. Hesterly had been the county judge of Ouachita County Arkansas for the past 10 years. Harry Clemons is the owner and operator of Clemons Construction. A federal grand jury handed down the indictments in Fort Smith on January 17, 2013. The Honorable Susan O. Hickey accepted the change of plea in The United States District Court in El Dorado. U.S. Attorney Eldridge commented, “This type of conduct by a public official offends taxpayers and citizens, as well as all of the other public officials who are truly dedicated to their service. To abuse your position of public trust to engage in illegal activities in order to enrich oneself is an affront to our justice system. We remain dedicated to holding those accountable who use similar positions to perpetrate crime.” “Public corruption undermines the trust necessary in our democracy. This case is evidence of the FBI’s commitment to investigate public corruption at all levels,” stated FBI Special Agent in Charge, David Resch. According to documents filed in court, beginning in March 2010, Hesterly proposed awarding Clemons a FEMA funded contract clean up storm debris in Ouachita County without competitive bidding in exchange for a payment to Hesterly for his reelection campaign. The debris was the product of two tornados that struck the county in October 2009. In furtherance of this conspiracy, Clemons arranged for two other bidders to submit intentionally inflated bids to Hesterly through fax. Clemons then met with Hesterly at his office and submitted a bid on behalf of himself and another company for the contract in the amount of $120,730, a total amount below the inflated bids. Hesterly accepted Clemons’s bid and, on April 8, 2010, applied for federal funds from FEMA to help Ouachita County pay for the contract. Hesterly represented to FEMA that Clemons was the lowest bidder among the three bids that he had received. After FEMA approved and obligated the request, Hesterly requested that the contract price be increased by $4,000 representing that the increase was necessary to cover increased costs to Clemons for disposing of the debri. FEMA also approved that request, but the $4,000 was ultimately paid to Hesterly by Clemons as bribe money solicited by Hesterly for awarding the contract to Clemons. In order to promote open competition, federal regulations require that the contract be awarded through a sealed bidding process and in compliance with all applicable state law. While state law requires the bid to be advertised for 10 days, the bid in this case was advertised for one day. No sealed bidding process took place. Instead, false and fraudulent bids were submitted. In August 2010, Clemons submitted documentation to Hesterly stating that all work on the contract had been complete and requested a payment of $69,865 for Clemons Construction. That same month, Hesterly certified to the state of Arkansas and FEMA that the work set forth in the contract had been completed. On October 13, 2010, Hesterly signed an order allowing Clemons’s claim for payment to go through. Later that month, Clemons received a check from Ouachita County for $69,865. Clemons then paid the $4,000 to Hesterly. The defendant’s sentence will be determined by the court after review of factors unique to this case, including the defendant’s prior criminal record (if any), the defendant’s role in the offense, and the characteristics of the violations. The sentence will not exceed the statutory maximum and in most cases will be less than the maximum. The maximum term of imprisonment for bribery is 10 years per count. This case was investigated by the FBI. Assistant United States Attorney Kenny Elser represented the United States.
corruption ELKINS, WV—The former Sheriff of Barbour County, West Virginia, was sentenced to prison today for scheming to defraud an insurance company, according to United States Attorney William J. Ihlenfeld, II. John W. Hawkins, 48 years of age, of Philippi, West Virginia, was ordered to serve 12 months and one day in prison as a result of his felony conviction for mail fraud in February. Hawkins, who resigned from his position as Barbour County sheriff when he entered his guilty plea four months ago, will self-report to prison on in July. He must also make full restitution. Hawkins admitted to staging an automobile accident in April 2013 and then conspiring to fabricate a report for submission to Nationwide Insurance Company so that his claim would be approved. Hawkins agreed that he used the United States Mail to make a fraudulent claim in the amount of $8,262.65, which was paid to him by Nationwide last year. United States Attorney Ihlenfeld and Assistant United States Attorney John C. Parr prosecuted the case on behalf of the government. The case was investigated by the U.S. Attorney’s Office Public Corruption Unit. Agents and officers from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the West Virginia State Police led the inquiry into Hawkins. Assistance was provided by the West Virginia Insurance Commission, Fraud Investigations Division. Chief U.S. District Judge John Preston Bailey imposed a sentence above the advisory sentencing guideline range. Judge Bailey cited the betrayal of trust by Hawkins to the citizens of Barbour County as a reason for the increase sentence. Ihlenfeld urges anyone with information regarding public corruption in their community to call the West Virginia Public Corruption Hotline at 855-WVA-FEDS (855-982-3337) or to send an e-mail to wvafeds@usdoj.gov.
corruption CHICAGO—Illinois State Representative DERRICK SMITH (10th District) was convicted today on federal corruption charges for accepting a $7,000 cash bribe in March 2012 to write an official letter of support for a daycare center that he believed was seeking a state grant as part of an undercover investigation. Smith was found guilty by a jury that began deliberating Monday afternoon following a trial that began on May 28. Smith, 50, of Chicago, was convicted on one count each of bribery and attempted extortion. No sentencing date was immediately set. A status hearing was set for September 23 before U.S. District Judge Sharon Johnson Coleman. Bribery carries a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison and attempted extortion carries a maximum of 20 years, and both counts carry a $250,000 maximum fine. The court must impose a reasonable sentence under federal statutes and the advisory United States Sentencing Guidelines. According to the evidence at trial, a confidential source identified as “Pete,” who worked on Smith’s political campaigns, and who, unbeknownst to Smith, was cooperating with the FBI, had numerous conversations with Smith about helping a fictional daycare owner obtain a purported state grant in exchange for a cash bribe. On March 2, 2012, Smith provided Pete with an official letter of support for the daycare owner to obtain a $50,000 Early Childhood Construction Grant from the state’s Capital Development Board. In return, during a recorded meeting on March 10, 2012, Pete gave Smith $7,000 cash, purportedly from the fictional daycare owner. In March 2011, Smith was appointed state representative for the 10th District, which covers portions of Chicago’s near west and near northwest sides. He was campaigning for his General Assembly seat in the March 20, 2012 primary election when he was arrested on March 13, 2012. Despite being impeached, he was elected to his seat in November 2012 while the charges were pending, but he became a lame duck this past February when he lost his primary bid for re-election. Trial evidence showed that Pete approached the agents in December 2011 and said that that Smith was willing to trade political and non-political favors for money. During multiple recorded in-person meetings and telephone calls beginning January 24, 2012, Smith agreed to write a letter of support for the purported grant application in exchange for a $7,000 bribe. On January 26, 2012, Smith and Pete toured the daycare facility, and Smith was given information about its purported expansion plans. Throughout February 2012, Smith and Pete had multiple conversations in which Pete told Smith that the daycare was applying for an Early Childhood Construction Grant. During those recorded conversations, Smith agreed to provide a letter of support in exchange for the daycare owner’s payment of $7,000. In late February 2012, Smith directed Pete to have the daycare owner draft a letter for Smith to sign, and law enforcement sent a draft letter of support to Smith’s office via e-mail. On March 2, 2012, Pete retrieved the letter, which was signed by Smith on his official letterhead and was addressed to the Illinois Capital Development Board. During early March 2012, Smith told Pete that he wanted payment from the daycare owner, and Smith rejected payment by cashier’s check because he did not want any trace of the money. Smith told Pete that he wanted the $7,000 in cash and agreed to give Pete $2,000 for arranging the deal. On March 10, 2012, Pete met with Smith in Smith’s vehicle, and Pete counted out the $7,000―all in $100 bills―for Smith during their recorded meeting. Smith did not report receipt of the cash on his Illinois campaign finance reports. After he was arrested, Smith admitted to agents that he had accepted $7,000 in exchange for the letter of support, and, accompanied by agents, he retrieved $2,500 from beneath a chest at the foot of his bed at his home and returned that money to the agents. The verdict was announced by Zachary T. Fardon, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois, and Robert J. Holley, Special Agent in Charge of the Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The government is being represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Marsha A. McClellan and Michael T. Donovan.
corruption CHARLESTON, WV—Former Mingo County circuit judge Michael Thornsbury was sentenced today to four years and two months in federal prison, United States Attorney Booth Goodwin announced. The sentence comes after Thornsbury admitted his role in a conspiracy to coerce a local drug defendant, George White, into firing his defense counsel. According to Thornsbury, he and other Mingo officials, including former county commissioner David Baisden, former prosecuting attorney Michael Sparks, and former sheriff Eugene Crum, learned that White was prepared to testify that then-Sheriff Crum had illegally received prescription pain medication and obtained unlawful campaign contributions. In order to protect Crum from the impact of White’s allegations, including possible federal investigation, Thornsbury, Baisden, Sparks, Crum, and others conspired to pressure White into firing his defense attorney and replacing him with another attorney handpicked by the conspirators. After switching lawyers, White dropped his allegations against Crum and was sentenced to up to 15 years in state prison. “Mr. Thornsbury’s conduct was shocking and appalling,” said U.S. Attorney Goodwin. “It was worthy of a stiff sentence. I’d like to see this whole episode be a call to action for all of us to make sure that this ‘Boss Hogg’ style of politics is a thing of the past—because it simply can’t be a part of our future.” In August 2013, a federal grand jury also charged Thornsbury with conspiring to frame the husband of a woman with whom he was in a romantic relationship. In imposing today’s sentence, United States District Judge Thomas E. Johnston compared Thornsbury’s abuses of office to the actions of a Third World dictator. With today’s sentence, Thornsbury becomes the third former Mingo official sent to federal prison in a wide-ranging federal corruption probe. He joins Baisden, sentenced in January to 20 months’ imprisonment, and former Mingo County chief magistrate Dallas Toler, sentenced in March to 27 months in prison. All three officials resigned their offices after being charged with federal crimes. Sparks, the fourth official charged in the investigation, has also resigned as a result of the charge against him and is scheduled to be sentenced July 7, 2014. The investigation of corruption in Mingo County is being conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the West Virginia State Police. Counsel to the United States Attorney Steven R. Ruby and Assistant United States Attorney C. Haley Bunn are in charge of the prosecutions.
corruption ALEXANDRIA, VA—Francisco Samayoa Hernandez (“Samayoa”), 33, of Silver Spring, Maryland, was sentenced today to 24 months in prison, followed by three years of supervised release, for receiving bribes in connection with his work as a tax assessor supervisor at the Arlington County Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) Select office. Samayoa also was ordered to pay approximately $21,000 in restitution to the DMV and to forfeit $11,480 in bribe payments to the government. Dana J. Boente, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia; and Valerie Parlave, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office, made the announcement after sentencing by U.S. District Judge Leonie M. Brinkema. Samayoa pleaded guilty on March 18, 2014. According to court documents, from July 2012 through November 2013, Samayoa received $11,480 in bribes from a vehicle exporter in exchange for providing vehicle titles and falsifying DMV paperwork that allowed the exporter to avoid paying state motor vehicle sales and use tax in connection with the registration and titling of various luxury automobiles. In exchange for the bribes, Samayoa enabled the exporter to avoid paying approximately $25,000 due to the Commonwealth of Virginia for the registration and titling of a Lamborghini and multiple Ferraris, Porsches, and Mercedes. Samayoa also enabled another individual to avoid paying approximately $16,536 in state motor vehicle sales and use tax in connection with the registration and titling of two Lamborghinis. Samayoa was an Arlington County employee, and the Arlington County Commissioner of Revenue contracts with the DMV to provide vehicle-related services at its local office. Samayoa also served as a straw buyer for the exporter and purchased three BMWs in his name. In connection with these transactions, Samayoa falsely certified to a dealership that he was not purchasing the vehicle for export, and the dealership relied on that certification in making the sale. This case was investigated jointly by the FBI’s Washington Field Office and the Virginia DMV Office of Enforcement and Compliance, Law Enforcement Division. Assistant U.S. Attorney Paul J. Nathanson prosecuted the case. Any person who believes they may have information regarding public corruption in the northern Virginia area is encouraged to call the FBI’s Northern Virginia Public Corruption Hotline at 703-686-6225 or send an e-mail to NOVAPC@ic.fbi.gov. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia at http://www.justice.gov/usao/vae.
corruption SAVANNAH, GA—Former Savannah-Chatham Metropolitan Police (SCMPD) Chief Willie Clinton Lovett, 65, was indicted yesterday by a federal grand jury sitting in Savannah on charges of extortion, participating in an illegal gambling operation, and conspiring to obstruct the enforcement of state criminal laws. Two other defendants, Randall Wayne Roach and Kenny Amos Blount, were also charged in the superseding indictment with running an illegal gambling business and with conspiring with Lovett to obstruct the enforcement of Georgia gambling laws. A fourth defendant, Randall Wayne Roach, Jr., was charged with participating in an illegal gambling business. According to the allegations contained in the superseding indictment, since 2004, Roach, Blount, Roach, Jr., and others would operate an illegal gambling business in Savannah during holiday celebrations, such as St. Patrick’s Day, and other events. The illegal gambling business would operate in violation of Georgia gambling laws but free from law enforcement intervention. As a major and then chief of SCMPD (formerly the Savannah Police Department), Lovett extorted cash payments from Roach and others. In return, Lovett provided protection to the illegal gambling business against enforcement of Georgia gambling laws. The superseding indictment alleges that in 2013, Lovett received cash payments on five separate occasions in exchange for protection against the enforcement of the criminal gambling laws of the State of Georgia, which payments came from the proceeds of the illegal gambling business. Roach, Roach, Jr., Blount, and Lovett each face a maximum sentence of five years in prison, $250,000 fine, and three years of supervised release on the commercial gambling charge. Lovett, Roach, and Blount also face a maximum sentence of five years in prison, $250,000 fine, and three years of supervised release on the conspiracy to obstruct the enforcement of state criminal laws charge. Lovett faces a maximum of 20 years in prison, a $250,000 fine, and three years of supervised release on each of the five extortion charges. An indictment is only an accusation and is not evidence of guilt. The defendant is entitled to a fair trial, during which it will be the government’s burden to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. The case was investigated by the FBI. First Assistant United States Attorney James D. Durham and Assistant United States Attorney R. Brian Tanner are prosecuting the case on behalf of the United States. Any questions should be directed to Mr. Durham at (912) 201-2547.
corruption SANTA ANA, CA—The former controller of a company that provides supervision services, including electronic monitoring programs, to courts and probation departments pleaded guilty today to federal charges of embezzling well over $3 million from the company over the course of two years. Steven A. Hagstrom, 37, of Anaheim, who was an accountant and then controller of the Irvine-based Sentinel Offender Services LLC, pleaded guilty this afternoon to one count of embezzlement before United States District Judge David O. Carter. As controller of Sentinel, Hagstrom had access to Sentinel’s bank accounts where fines, court fees, and restitution payments from criminal defendants were held in trust. The accounts also held money paid to Sentinel for services provided to state and federal court systems. Beginning in early 2012 and continuing until April 2013, Hagstrom transferred approximately $3,338,197 from Sentinel’s bank accounts to bank accounts he controlled, where they could be used for his own benefit. Judge Carter is scheduled to sentence Hagstrom on September 29. The embezzlement count carries a statutory maximum sentence of 10 years in federal prison. About half of the embezzled money has already been returned to Sentinel, and Hagstrom has agreed to make full restitution to his former employer. The investigation into Hagstrom was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and IRS-Criminal Investigation.
corruption CHARLOTTE, NC—Former Charlotte Mayor Patrick D. Cannon pleaded guilty today to one count of honest services wire fraud, announced Anne M. Tompkins, U.S. Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina, and John A. Strong, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Charlotte Division. A federal criminal bill of information charging the former mayor and a filed plea agreement were unsealed on Monday, June 2, 2014. Cannon, 47, appeared in court today and formally pleaded guilty to the charge before U.S. Magistrate Judge David S. Cayer. “Former Mayor Cannon used his elected official position to enrich himself at the expense of the city of Charlotte,” said U.S. Attorney Tompkins in making today’s announcement. “Through his actions, Cannon betrayed the trust of his constituents and his peers, compromised the integrity of our local government, and damaged Charlotte’s good reputation as a city that does business the honest way. Cannon will now be held accountable for depriving the citizens of Charlotte of their right to his honest and faithful services and for putting personal gain over the greater good. As we move forward, let one message be clear: My office will continue to investigate allegations of public corruption and go after anyone who uses public office as a means of getting rich. Charlotte has no room for corrupt politicians.” “This nearly four-year investigation was complex and required a great deal of diligence and dedication from the FBI special agents and prosecutors involved. By its very nature, public corruption is conducted in a shroud of secrecy and can be difficult to detect. Fortunately, the FBI has the capability to use a number of lawful, sophisticated tools and techniques to capture key evidence. The criminal actions of Patrick Cannon brought undeserved shame and embarrassment upon the city of Charlotte. As the city begins to heal, citizens should be reassured this investigation does not end with today’s guilty plea. FBI agents will continue to follow the trail of evidence in this case and look into related allegations as the investigation moves forward,” said John A. Strong, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI in North Carolina. According to the criminal bill of information to which Cannon pleaded guilty, other documents filed in this case and statements made in court Background Beginning in on or about December 7, 2009 and continuing through March 26, 2014, Cannon devised a bribery scheme and used his official position to enrich himself. During the course of the scheme, Cannon was an elected official serving as a member of the city council, and/or mayor pro tem or mayor of the city of Charlotte. During the relevant time period, Cannon solicited and accepted gifts, payments, and other things of value in exchange for a pattern of official actions favorable to the persons who secretly paid him. Specifically, Cannon accepted a total of at least $50,000 from a Charlotte business owner and two undercover agents posing as investors interested in opening businesses in Charlotte. Cannon accepted the bribes in exchange for use of his official position on an “as needed” basis, including communicating with city and county officials and others to assist his payors’ projects and intervening with any zoning, permitting and transportation issues, among others. Cannon’s actions and fraudulent bribery scheme defrauded the citizens and the government of Charlotte and deprived them of their right to Cannon’s honest and faithful services. The Schemes to Defraud The Scheme to Solicit and Accept Things of Value from Businessman No. 1 (“BM1”) The criminal bill of information identifies BM1 as the owner of a company that owns and operates a live adult entertainment club in the Charlotte area (the club). During the relevant time period, Cannon secretly solicited, accepted, and agreed to accept periodic payments and checks from or on behalf of BM1 in exchange for Cannon’s use of his elected offices to exert influence over city zoning, planning, and transportation officials, as needed or required by BM1. Specifically, in and around January 2013, Cannon accepted approximately $2,000 in cash from BM1 in exchange for Cannon’s influence in relocating the club away from the proposed LYNX Blue Line Extension (BLE), thereby enabling BM1 to keep his establishment open as an adult club. The Scheme to Solicit and Accept Things of Value from Undercover Employee No. 1 (UCE1) UCE1 was an FBI undercover agent who Cannon believed to be a business manager for a Chicago-based venture capital company interested in opening a nightclub/bar in Charlotte at a property identified as the Firehouse. The selected location had numerous zoning and parking issues. Beginning no later than December 12, 2012 through on or about March 26, 2014, Cannon secretly solicited, accepted, and agreed to accept $12,500 in cash and the occasional use of an apartment in exchange for Cannon’s influence and intervention as needed to assist UCE1 in dealing with city and county officials and working out any zoning, licensing, and permit issues associated with the selected property. The Scheme to Solicit and Accept Things of Value from Undercover Employee No. 2 (“UCE2”) UCE2 was an FBI undercover agent, who Cannon believed to be a Las Vegas real estate developer looking to secure foreign investors to finance commercial real estate developments in Charlotte. Beginning no later than May 21, 2013 through on or about March 26, 2014, Cannon secretly solicited, accepted, and agreed to accept a total of $36,000 in cash, a trip to Las Vegas, and the occasional use of an apartment in exchange for use of his elected position to create and make false representations on behalf of UCE2 to individuals Cannon believed to be foreign investors. Specifically, at the request of UCE2, Cannon traveled to Las Vegas and in his official capacity as Charlotte’s mayor pro tem delivered a presentation to purported investors during which Cannon falsely told them that he had successfully used his position in the past to assist with a similar project in Charlotte. Over the course of his dealings with UCE2, Cannon promised to use his new position as mayor to make contacts and exert his official influence over city and county officials to secure federal financing for transportation projects that would benefit UCE2’s company; offered to use and used the Mayor’s office to persuade one of UCE2’s purported skeptical investors to invest in UCE2’s company; and promised to give UCE2’s company preferential treatment over other potential developers. During the relevant time period, Cannon never disclosed to any city and county employees whom he contacted his relationship with BM1, UCE1, and UCE2 or that he was receiving cash, gifts, and other things of value from them in exchange for use of his official position. The Charged Offense and Penalties Cannon has pleaded guilty to one count of honest services wire fraud. In pleading guilty, Cannon has admitted to defrauding and depriving the citizens of Charlotte and the Charlotte government of their right to Cannon’s honest and faithful services through bribery and the concealment of material information. The charge carries a maximum prison term of 20 years, a $250,000 fine, or both. According to the terms of the plea agreement, Cannon has also agreed to pay restitution. Cannon’s final sentence and restitution amount will be determined by a federal judge at sentencing. Cannon is currently released on bond, and a date for his sentencing hearing has not been set. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Michael E. Savage and Craig D. Randall of the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Charlotte. The ongoing investigation is being handled the FBI. Manner and Means of the Scheme Date(s) Payor Bribe (“Quid”) Official Act(s) (“Quo”) January 1-31, 2013 BM1 $2,000 cash Cannon urged a council member to intervene with city official on behalf of the club. January 17, 2013 UCE1 $12,500 cash Cannon promised to use his influence to move UCE1’s applications for business licenses, planning and building permits to “the top of the pile.” July 1, 2013 UCE1 UCE2 $1,000 cash; hotel room; airfare Cannon traveled to Las Vegas to give a false presentation as Charlotte Mayor Pro Tem to a group of UCEs posing as foreign investors. July 2, 2013 UCE2 $5,000 cash Cannon gave a false presentation as Mayor Pro Tem to a group of UCEs posing as foreign investors and promised to use his official position as needed to benefit UCE2’s real estate projects. July 19, 2013 UCE2 $10,000 cash Cannon used his official position as Mayor Pro Tem to successfully recruit a payment to UCE2’s company from a UCE posing as a foreign investor and called the City’s Zoning Administrator on behalf of UCE1. December 11, 2013 UCE2 Key and use of apartment Cannon called the city manager on behalf of UCE2, provided UCE2 with the Planning Director’s contact information, and advised UCE2 to tell the Planning Director that he had previously had a conversation with Cannon and the City Manager. February 21, 2014 UCE2 $20,000 cash Cannon used the mayor’s office and his elected position to convince a UCE posing as a skeptical foreign investor to “close” on a $25 million payment to UCE2’s company.
corruption BATON ROUGE, LA—United States Attorney Walt Green announced today that another state auditor has been charged in the ongoing federal and state investigation into corruption at the Bureau of Auditing and Compliance Services for the Louisiana Department of Children and Family Services (DCFS). Kaneasha L. Goston, age 38, of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, is charged in a bill of information with theft from a federally funded entity, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 666(a)(1)(A), and forfeiture. If convicted, the defendant faces up to 10 years’ imprisonment, a fine up to $250,000, forfeiture of the proceeds of the offense, and up to three years of supervised release following imprisonment. During the relevant period, the defendant was an auditor with the Bureau of Auditing and Compliance Services for the Louisiana Department of Children and Family Services (DCFS), a state agency that receives more than a billion dollars in federal funding annually. The defendant and the other auditors were responsible for safeguarding assets against theft and unauthorized use; ensuring that transactions were properly authorized and recorded properly; and ensuring compliance with management policies, as well as federal and state laws and regulations. The bill of information alleges that, while employed as a DCFS auditor, the defendant engaged in a scheme with the director of the Auditing Bureau, Delrice Augustus, to create and use fraudulent documents to request and receive reimbursement from the state of Louisiana for official travel that did not occur. According to the bill of information, the defendant would sign the fraudulent reimbursement requests as the requesting employee, and Augustus would sign as the approving supervisor. The state would then pay the requested amount. Augustus pled guilty yesterday in connection with this scheme and others. This matter is being handled by the United States Attorney’s Office, the Louisiana State Police, the Louisiana Inspector General’s Office, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The matter is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Corey R. Amundson, who serves as the Chief of the Criminal Division, and Special Assistant United States Attorney J. Brad Casey. DCFS leadership has fully cooperated with the investigation and has provided valuable assistance throughout. Such assistance and cooperation is highly commendable and reflects a collective determination by law enforcement and DCFS leadership to root out the corruption identified in this matter.
corruption TRENTON, NJ—A Jersey City, New Jersey police officer today admitted stealing more than half a million cigarettes from a trailer and extorting $20,000 from a drug courier who turned out to be an undercover FBI agent, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Mario Rodriguez, 39, of Jersey City, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Anne E. Thompson in Trenton federal court to an information charging him with transportation of stolen goods and extortion under color of official right. According to documents filed in the case and statements made in court: On July 3, 2013, Rodriguez and an individual working for the FBI as a confidential informant (CI) drove to a warehouse in Secaucus, New Jersey to break into a trailer, steal cigarettes, and sell the stolen goods to the CI’s associate. Law enforcement agents had previously parked the trailer at the warehouse and established surveillance of the area. After using bolt-cutters to cut the lock off of the trailer, Rodriguez and the CI loaded 50 cases containing approximately 600,000 cigarettes and six televisions from the trailer into their vehicle. As they drove the stolen items to a parking lot in Staten Island, New York, Rodriguez made several phone calls seeking buyers for the TVs. The pair met the CI’s associate—actually an undercover officer—in the parking lot to get the $5,000 payment for the cigarettes. Rodriguez kept $3,000 of the cash and three of the TVs. On July 10, 2013, Rodriguez, the CI and an undercover law enforcement agent met in New Jersey and discussed the possibility of robbing a drug courier, who was actually another undercover officer. On July 24, 2013, the group met again in Staten Island to discuss the plan. The undercover officer told Rodriguez the courier would be delivering cocaine to them that day in exchange for a $20,000 payment. Rodriguez suggested a Jersey City mall parking lot due to an absence of surveillance cameras and called his associate, Anthony Roman, 48, of Jersey City, who was not a law enforcement officer, to help him with the robbery. Roman was charged with one count of Hobbs Act extortion. Later that day, Rodriguez and Roman drove an SUV to the location where the CI and the drug courier were parked. Law enforcement agents had already established surveillance and staged the car containing $20,000 cash in a plastic bag. Rodriguez and Roman approached the car and identified themselves as law enforcement officers who were investigating the CI. They pretended to arrest the CI, threatened to arrest the drug courier and took the cash. Later that day, Rodriguez, the CI and the undercover agent met in a hotel room at a Pennsylvania casino to split the cash. The cargo theft and conspiracy to commit extortion charges to which Rodriguez pleaded guilty carry a maximum potential penalty of 10 and 20 years in prison, respectively. Both counts also carry a maximum fine of $250,000. Sentencing is scheduled for September 26, 2014. Rodriguez has been suspended from the police department. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford in Newark; the Special Investigations Unit of the Jersey City Police Department, under the direction of Acting Chief Joseph Connors; the Hudson County Prosecutor’s Office, under the direction of Acting Prosecutor Gaetano T. Gregory; and criminal investigators of the U.S. Attorney’s Office with the investigation leading to today’s plea. He also thanked the Bayonne Police Department, Waterfront Commission of New York Harbor, IRS-Criminal Investigation, U.S. Department of Labor Office of Inspector General, and the N.J. State Commission of Investigation for their significant contributions to the investigation. The government is represented by Acting Deputy Chief of the General Crimes Unit Jonathan W. Romankow in Newark. The charges against Roman remain pending. They are merely accusations, and he remains innocent unless and until proven guilty. Defense counsel: Brian J. Neary Esq., Hackensack, New Jersey
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, and Tom Frost, Special Agent in Charge of the United States Postal Service Office of Inspector General, Major Fraud Investigations Division, announced that former U.S. Postal Service employee ROBERT GIULIETTI, 57, was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge Stefan R. Underhill in Bridgeport to 42 months of imprisonment, followed by three years of supervised release, for bribery, fraud, and tax offenses. According to court documents and statements made in court, GIULIETTI was a facilities project manager for the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) at the USPS Northeast Facilities Office in Windsor, Connecticut. GIULIETTI’s duties included recommending and selecting facilities improvement contractors, reviewing and approving bids received from those contractors for USPS work, certifying the completion of work by contractors, and approving payment authorizations. GIULIETTI has admitted that he accepted approximately $89,000 from two contractors to direct inflated USPS facilities construction contracts to them. Also, in approximately September 2009, GIULIETTI formed MGC LLC to do business with the USPS on projects on which he worked. MGC was owned in name by GIULIETTI’s wife, and its business address was his home address in Cheshire. Operating MGC from his USPS office in Windsor, GIULIETTI used his position to direct USPS contracts to MGC, to approve MGC’s work and to authorize payment to MGC for work. After GIULIETTI directed USPS contracts to MGC, he engaged other contractors to perform the actual work involved with each project. GIULIETTI generated almost a million dollars in profit by having MGC charge USPS more than MGC had to pay the contractors who performed the actual work. Between November 2009 and November 2011, GIULIETTI directed more than 150 USPS facility projects to MGC, causing a loss to the USPS of approximately $982,064.68. GIULIETTI also filed false federal income tax returns for the 2008 through 2011 tax years by fraudulently deducting payments from MGC to members of his family, and by not reporting the corrupt payments that he received. “The prosecution of corrupt public employees is a top priority of this Office,” stated U.S. Attorney Daly. “This defendant not only accepted bribes and defrauded the U.S. Postal Service of nearly a million dollars, but he cheated on his taxes, as well. It is intolerable criminal conduct. I commend the USPS Office of Inspector General, the Connecticut FBI and IRS-Criminal Investigation for their excellent work in this investigation, which included the seizure of significant assets.” “The priority mission of the USPS-OIG Major Fraud Investigations Division is to protect the integrity and improve the economy of the U.S. Postal Service through vigorous investigation of schemes designed to defraud it,” stated Special Agent in Charge Frost. “Mr. Giulietti put the desire for his own personal enrichment ahead of his duty when he betrayed his position of trust and defrauded the U.S. Postal Service. His sentencing today is the inevitable outcome of his actions.” GIULIETTI was arrested on December 13, 2012. On February 7, 2014, he pleaded guilty to one count of bribery of a public official, one count of wire fraud and one count of filing a false tax return. As part of his sentence, GIULIETTI is required to pay restitution in the amount of $882,064.68, and back taxes penalties and interest in the amount of $291,026.82. Judge Underhill ordered the forfeiture of a residence GIULIETTI owns on South Pond Circle in Cheshire, a 2012 Chevrolet Equinox, and approximately $740,000 that was seized from bank accounts. GIULIETTI was ordered to report to prison on July 23, 2014. This ongoing investigation is being conducted by the U.S. Postal Service, Office of Inspector General, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation Division. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Jonathan Francis and Eric Glover.
corruption The United States Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania announced today that a criminal information was filed in U.S. District Court in Scranton charging Luzerne County Court employee Stacey McGlone, age 37, of McAdoo, Pennsylvania, with stealing in excess of $5,000 from the Luzerne County Probation/Parole office, under the supervision of the County Court of Common Pleas, during the course of her employment with that office. According to United States Attorney Peter Smith, McGlone was responsible for the collection of funds from individuals receiving services associated with the Probation/Parole Office, as well as debts owed by those individuals, including fines, costs, and restitution debts incurred in connection with court proceedings. McGlone allegedly failed to make proper disposition of funds that came into her possession by reason of her employment. The Information charges that between January 2009 and March 2014, McGlone stole in excess of $5,000 in cash from payments she collected. Federal jurisdiction to prosecute the case is based on the fact that Luzerne County and the Luzerne County Court of Common Pleas each received more than $10,000 in federal funds annually. The government also filed a plea agreement with McGlone which must be approved by the U.S. District Court. McGlone faces up to 10 years in prison and fines in the amount of $250,000. McGlone’s employment with Luzerne County and the Court of Common Pleas has been terminated. The prosecution is the result of a joint investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and the Luzerne County District Attorney’s Office. Prosecution is assigned to Assistant United States Attorney Michelle Olshefski. Indictments and Criminal Informations are only allegations. All persons charged are presumed to be innocent unless and until found guilty in court. A sentence following a finding of guilty is imposed by the judge after consideration of the applicable federal sentencing statutes and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines. In this case, the maximum penalty under the federal statute is 10 years’ imprisonment, a term of supervised release following imprisonment, and a fine. Under the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, the judge is also required to consider and weigh a number of factors, including the nature, circumstances, and seriousness of the offense; the history and characteristics of the defendant; and the need to punish the defendant, protect the public, and provide for the defendant’s educational, vocational, and medical needs. For these reasons, the statutory maximum penalty for the offense is not an accurate indicator of the potential sentence for a specific defendant.
corruption ATLANTA—Former Atlanta Public Schools (APS) Chief Information Officer (CIO) Jerome Oberlton was sentenced to three years and five months in federal prison for conspiring to receive kickbacks in exchange for awarding a $780,000 contract to a computer vendor. “Oberlton lined his own pockets at the expense of the APS students and teachers who depended on him,” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. “In a time when schools struggle to make the most of every dollar, Oberlton put his own greed before his obligation to protect scarce resources.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated, “Oberlton’s sentence will afford him the opportunity to reflect upon his actions and should serve as a reminder to all who serve the public that manipulating the system for self-gain in this manner is not only wrong but criminal and that it will not be tolerated.” “This sentence is a vital element in maintaining public confidence that this individual and others who commit similar crimes will be held accountable,” stated Special Agent in Charge, Veronica F. Hyman-Pillot. “IRS Criminal Investigation is committed to addressing financial fraud at every level and is proud to have worked with our law enforcement partners to ensure that those who engage in these illegal activities are vigorously investigated and brought to justice.” According to United States Attorney Yates, the charges, and other information presented in court, Oberlton, as APS’ CIO, had overall management responsibility for the APS information technology program. In January 2007, the school system issued a request for proposal (RFP) for a Data Warehousing (DW) project. The DW project was intended to centralize information relating to APS operations, including student information, so that it was maintained digitally in a secure, easily accessible manner. From the start of the project in January 2007, co-defendant Mahendra Patel and Oberlton conspired to influence the RFP process and, ultimately, caused the winning bidder to be selected in exchange for kickbacks paid to both. In order to hide the bribes, Oberlton created Global Technology Partners (GTP) and, later, Global Technology Services (GTS), funneling the bribe payments through these shell companies. Oberlton concealed his ownership of GTP and GTS from the school system, even when questions arose in 2007. In contrast, the kickbacks to Patel were disguised as sales commissions for non-existent consulting work he supposedly performed for the shell companies. In reality, Patel acted as an intermediary, helping to negotiate the kickbacks to Oberlton from the vendor. The computer vendor ultimately paid approximately $60,000 in bribes to Oberlton over almost six months, and, in return, the company received $780,000 in APS project work. Oberlton was APS’ CIO between June 2004 and August 2007 and, most recently, was the chief of staff for the Dallas Independent School District before he resigned in May 2013, shortly after he was indicted. Oberlton was sentenced to three years and five months in prison, to be followed by three years of supervised release, and was ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $735,130. Oberlton was convicted on these charges on January 8, 2014, after he pleaded guilty. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Internal Revenue Service. Assistant United States Attorneys Kurt R. Erskine and Jill Steinberg prosecuted the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Pressemails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Atlanta Division is http://www.justice.gov/usao/gan/.
corruption WASHINGTON—A current Puerto Rico Superior Court Judge and Puerto Rico businessman were charged with orchestrating a criminal scheme in which the businessman paid bribes to the judge presiding over the criminal case against the businessman, according to an indictment unsealed today. Assistant Attorney General Leslie R. Caldwell of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodríguez-Vélez of the District of Puerto Rico, and Special Agent in Charge Carlos Cases of the FBI’s San Juan Division made the announcement. “The outcome of a criminal case should be determined by the evidence and the law, not by paid-for bias,” said Assistant Attorney General Caldwell. “When citizens can’t have faith in the very people who are sworn to uphold the law, confidence in the entire system is shaken. We are committed to restoring that faith by rooting out corruption wherever it may be found.” “A fair and impartial criminal justice system is one of the cornerstones of our democracy,” said U.S. Attorney Rodríguez-Vélez. “Judges, in particular, are expected to protect the public’s trust in the fairness of the judicial system. Investigations such as the one leading to today’s indictment are crucial to deter corrupt officials influenced by greed from breaking their oath to uphold the rule of law. This case should serve as a strong warning to those who might consider similar behavior. No one is above the law, and everyone is accountable for their misdeeds.” “Rogue justice as the one allegedly imparted by Judge Manuel Acevedo-Hernández will not be tolerated by the FBI,” said Special Agent in Charge Cases. “The FBI will continue vigorously to investigate allegations of corruption at all levels.” The indictment, returned yesterday by a federal grand jury in the District of Puerto Rico and unsealed today, charges Manuel Acevedo-Hernandez, 62, and Lutgardo Acevedo-Lopez, 39, with conspiracy to commit federal programs bribery. Acevedo-Hernandez was also charged with receipt of a bribe by an agent of an organization receiving federal funds, and Acevedo-Lopez was charged with paying a bribe to an agent of an organization receiving federal funds. According to the indictment, Acevedo-Hernandez, a supervisory superior court Judge in the Aguadilla judicial region of Puerto Rico, allegedly accepted bribes from Acevedo-Lopez and others, knowing that the payments were made so that Acevedo-Hernandez would use his official position as a superior court judge for Acevedo-Lopez’s benefit. In particular, Acevedo-Hernandez presided over a criminal trial of Acevedo-Lopez and acquitted Acevedo-Lopez of all charges pending against him, including vehicular homicide. In exchange for the acquittal, Acevedo-Lopez, through an intermediary, bribed Acevedo-Hernandez by paying taxes owed by Acevedo-Hernandez, paying for construction of a garage, and providing him with a motorcycle, clothing, and accessories, including cufflinks and a watch. The charges contained in the indictment are merely accusations. The defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. The case is being investigated by the FBI’s San Juan Division and is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Peter Mason of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Timothy Henwood and Jose Capo of the District of Puerto Rico. Citizens of Puerto Rico who have allegations of public corruption are encouraged to contact the FBI’s San Juan Division at (787) 754-6000.
corruption WASHINGTON—Michael A. Brown, a former member of the Council of the District of Columbia, was sentenced today to 39 months in prison for carrying out a scheme in which he accepted a total of $55,000 in a series of meetings with undercover FBI agents posing as officials of a company that purportedly wanted to win government contracting opportunities. The sentencing was announced by U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen, Jr.; Valerie Parlave, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office; and Thomas J. Kelly, Special Agent in Charge of the Washington Field Office of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI). Brown, 49, pled guilty to a federal bribery charge in June 2013 in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. He was sentenced by the Honorable Chief Judge Richard W. Roberts. The plea agreement called for Brown to pay a money judgment of $35,000 in forfeiture, covering the amount of money he collected before confronted by law enforcement. Upon completion of his prison term, Brown will be placed on two years of supervised release; during that time, Chief Judge Roberts ordered that he perform 200 hours of community service. Brown was the third member of the Council of the District of Columbia to plead guilty within the past three years to federal charges involving crimes committed while they were in office. Harry L. Thomas, Jr., who represented Ward 5, pled guilty in January 2012 to federal theft and tax charges in a scheme in which he used more than $350,000 in taxpayer money for his own personal benefit. Kwame R. Brown, the Council’s former Chairman, pled guilty in June 2012 to a federal charge of bank fraud, involving two personal loans, and a second criminal charge involving a violation of the District of Columbia’s campaign finance laws. The charge against Michael A. Brown involved a scheme in which he admitted taking the cash payments in return for his assistance in winning the District of Columbia government’s approval for a company that was seeking to be classified as a Certified Business Enterprise, a designation that would create potentially lucrative business opportunities; Brown also agreed to help the company with government contracting opportunities. Also, in two separate schemes, Brown admitted concealing the true source of $20,000 that was secretly contributed to his failed bid in 2007 for a seat on the District of Columbia Council and over $100,000 that was secretly contributed to his successful bid in 2008 for a seat on the District of Columbia Council. Under the plea agreement, Brown will not be criminally prosecuted for this conduct. “Rather than wielding his political power to serve the citizens of the District of Columbia who voted for him, Michael Brown exerted his influence on behalf of purported contractors who were willing to line his pockets with hundred-dollar bills,”said U.S. Attorney Machen. “Brown’s decision to auction off the public trust was especially disappointing because of his enormous potential to stand as a bright light for the residents of this city. His term of incarceration will hopefully serve as an admonition to other public officials who are considering betraying their oath of office for fast cash.” “In a shame to his oath of office and his duty to the District of Columbia, Mr. Brown took $55,000 in bribes and evaded campaign finance laws,” said Assistant Director in Charge Parlave. “Today’s sentence demonstrates that no one is above the law. Together with our law enforcement partners, the FBI will continue to investigate public officials who abuse the public trust and use their office to commit illegal acts.” Brown was elected as an at-large member of the District of Columbia Council in 2008 and took office in January 2009. He left office on January 2, 2013, following his defeat last November for re-election. Brown then launched a bid to win another at-large Council seat in a special election scheduled for April 23, 2013. However, he withdrew his candidacy on April 2, 2013, less than three weeks after he was confronted by law enforcement in the bribery scheme. Bribery Scheme: According to a statement of offense signed by the government, as well as the defendant, Brown’s at-large council duties included acting as chair of the Committee on Economic Development and Housing. The committee is responsible for matters related to economic, industrial and commercial development. The bribery scheme focused largely on a special program run by the District of Columbia government to help its small local businesses become economically viable: the Certified Business Enterprise (CBE) program. Status as a CBE carries preferential procurement and contracting opportunities. To be eligible for this designation, businesses must meet certain requirements and be certified by the District of Columbia’s Department of Small and Local Business Development (DSLBD). Prior to July 11, 2012, Brown had discussions about obtaining assistance of $50,000 to $75,000 for Brown from a government contractor. Brown expected to assist the government contractor with its business if the contractor provided such financial assistance to Brown. These discussions led to a series of meetings with two undercover FBI agents, posing as employees of a Maryland company that wanted CBE approval and contracting opportunities. Between July 2012 and March 2013, Brown met in person with one or both of the undercover agents a total of eight times. He was in contact with one of the undercover agents on more than 30 separate days, in person, by phone, or by text, frequently seeking payment, in whole or in part, for the efforts he was making on the company’s behalf. Over the months, Brown made calls on the company’s behalf to the director of the Department of Small and Local Business Development, introduced the undercover agents to a contractor at a symposium he sponsored, and took other actions meant to speed through the company’s attempts to win approval as a CBE. He continued these efforts even after his defeat in the November 2012 election. In January 2013, the Department of Small and Local Business Development did a site visit for the company’s application. Brown accepted a total of $55,000 in five of the meetings. The final meeting was March 14, 2013, in which he accepted a $20,000 payment. The company subsequently withdrew its CBE application. Campaign Finance Scheme: In the spring of 2007, Brown was a candidate in a special election for the Ward 4 seat on the D.C. Council. Around that time, he met with business owner Jeffrey E. Thompson about obtaining funding for his campaign. Thompson is the former chairman, chief executive officer, and majority owner of Thompson, Cobb, Bazilio and Associates (TCBA), a corporation that provided accounting, management, consulting, and tax services. He also is the former chairman, chief executive officer, and owner of D.C. Healthcare Systems Inc. (DCHSI), an investment holding and for-profit corporation. Both companies generated millions of dollars in government contracts. Thompson and six others have pled guilty to charges involving Thompson’s illegal contributions to numerous federal and District of Columbia campaigns. In seeking the contribution in 2007, Brown understood that Thompson would not contribute in a public manner because certain business activities required support for other candidates, based on various political dynamics. Brown understood that the contribution from Thompson would be publicly disclosed as having been contributed in the name of another person. He also understood from his discussion that it would exceed the limits on the amount that an individual could contribute to a political campaign committee. At the end of the meeting, “Thompson told Brown that Brown would hear from somebody to arrange the contribution. Following this meeting, Brown was contacted by Eugenia C. Harris, another business owner, in the District of Columbia. Then, as agreed upon by Brown, Harris and Thompson a series of bank transfers began taking place. Brown understood that a total of $20,000 originated from Thompson. Harris sent two wire transfers, of $10,000 each, to Brown’s personal bank account. Brown, in turn, contributed the funds to his campaign. Brown subsequently caused the campaign committee to file a form with the D.C. Office of Campaign Finance that publicly disclosed that Brown made an individual contribution of $25,000 to his political campaign committee, which Brown knew disguised the fact that Thompson was the source of most of this money. Harris pled guilty in July 2012 to charges in the investigation. Following Brown’s guilty plea, additional evidence was discovered about the extent of the contributions that Thompson secretly made to Brown’s successful campaign in 2008 for a seat on the District of Columbia Council. Brown admitted to this activity in an amended statement of offense filed in February 2014. Among other things, Brown admitted that after losing the Ward 4 seat in 2007, he decided to enter the election for an At-large seat on the D.C. Council in 2008. Brown once again met with Thompson, who in October 2008 secretly channeled more than $100,000 through Harris for a get-out-the-vote effort. Brown subsequently won the election for the council seat. In announcing the sentence, U.S. Attorney Machen, Assistant Director in Charge Parlave, and Special Agent in Charge Kelly commended those who investigated the case for the FBI and IRS-CI. They also acknowledged the efforts of those who worked on the case from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, including Assistant U.S. Attorneys Michael K. Atkinson, David A. Last, and Bryan Seeley of the Fraud and Public Corruption Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Anthony D. Saler,of the Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section. Finally, they expressed thanks for assistance provided by Forensic Accountant Maria Boodoo; Paralegal Specialists Tasha Harris and Krishawn Graham; and Legal Assistant Angela
corruption Derrick Miller, former chief administrative officer of the city of Detroit, was sentenced today to 12 months in a halfway house for corruption and tax offenses, U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade announced. McQuade was joined in the announcement by Paul M. Abbate, Special Agent in Charge of the Detroit Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Carolyn Weber, Special Agent in Charge of the Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigations; Randall Ashe, Special Agent in Charge of the Environmental Protection Agency, Criminal Investigation Division; and Giovanni Tiano, Special Agent in Charge of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Office of Inspector General. U.S. District Judge Nancy G. Edmunds also ordered that Miller, 44, of Vienna, Virginia, pay restitution and back taxes with penalties to the IRS. According to court records, from 2005 to 2007, Miller served as chief administrative officer and chief information officer for the city of Detroit. In these capacities, Miller had authority over the lease and sale of properties owned by the city of Detroit. During that period, Miller accepted $115,000 as corrupt rewards from a real estate broker who received commissions in connection with the lease or sale of city properties. In October 2008, Miller filed an individual income tax return for the 2007 tax year in which he willfully made statements that he knew were false regarding the amount of income he received from two of his companies, Atrium Financial LLC and Citivest LLC, with the intent of concealing that income from the IRS. Miller intentionally failed to report on his return the $46,725 bribe he received that year from the real estate broker. Miller also intentionally failed to report on his tax return a total of $568,000 he received in 2007 for his assistance to a real estate company that entered into a purchase and leaseback of a portfolio of properties. The total amount of additional tax due and owing for tax year 2007 was $240,858. The court departed from the advisory guidelines range of 70-87 months in prison because of Miller’s extraordinary assistance in the prosecution of a public corruption case of historic importance to this region. As a member of former Detroit Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick’s inner circle, Miller gave the jury a firsthand perspective of the illicit objectives and motivations of Kilpatrick, contractor Bobby Ferguson, and their associates. McQuade said, “The court recognized that Miller’s cooperation was extraordinary and essential to bringing to justice other more serious wrongdoers. As a member of the inner circle of Kilpatrick’s criminal enterprise, Miller provided detailed and corroborated testimony about Kilpatrick’s fraud, bribery and extortion. Public officials should take note that early and extraordinary cooperation will yield a substantially lower sentence.” United States Attorney McQuade thanked the agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigations, the Environmental Protection Agency Criminal Investigations Division, and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Office of Inspector General for their assistance in the successful investigation of the case. The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Mark Chutkow, R. Michael Bullotta, Jennifer Blackwell, and Eric Doeh.
corruption BATON ROUGE, LA—United States Attorney Walt Green announced today a conviction in the ongoing federal and state investigation into corruption at the Bureau of Auditing and Compliance Services for the Louisiana Department of Children and Family Services (DCFS). Delrice J. Augustus, age 34, of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, pled guilty this morning before U.S. District Judge Shelly Dick to a superseding bill of information charging him with theft from a federally funded entity, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 666(a)(1)(A), and forfeiture. Augustus faces up to 10 years’ imprisonment, a fine up to $250,000, forfeiture of the proceeds of the offense, and up to three years of supervised release following imprisonment. A sentencing date has not yet been set. As required by the plea agreement, Augustus has resigned his position as the director of the Bureau of Auditing and Compliance Services for DCFS, a state agency that receives over a billion dollars in federal funding annually. As director, Augustus reported directly to the secretary of DCFS and led the office responsible for safeguarding assets against theft and unauthorized use; ensuring that transactions were properly authorized and recorded properly; and ensuring compliance with management policies, as well as federal and state laws and regulations. At today’s hearing, Augustus admitted to using his official position to defraud DCFS out of between $120,000 and $200,000 through the following three schemes. Augustus admitted to fraudulently misusing government purchasing cards to obtain items for personal use for himself and others, including an installed dishwasher, televisions, movies, cameras, wireless audio systems (such as Sonos and Jawbone), gaming devices (such as Xboxes, Wiis, and Leapsters), mobile devices (such as iPads, Kindle Fires, and an iPhone 5), Dyson vacuums, rental vehicles, hotel rooms, and fuel. Augustus admitted to misusing and causing others to misuse state travel and gas cards to pay for personal travel and entertainment expenses for himself and others, including gas, rental vehicles, and hotel stays. One such occasion involved purchasing hotel suites in New Orleans for Mardi Gras and the NBA All-Star Game. Augustus admitted to engaging in a scheme to create and use fraudulent documents to request and receive reimbursement from the State of Louisiana for official travel that did not occur. Augustus would sign and submit reimbursement claims for expenses he falsely claimed to have incurred as part of his official duties. Augustus would cause the signature of the secretary of the Louisiana Department of Children and Family Services to appear on his fraudulent reimbursement claims as approving such claims, when, in fact, the secretary had neither approved the claims nor authorized her signature to be used in such a manner. Augustus would also create fraudulent documents reflecting that C.P. and K.G., who were employees in the Auditor’s Office, had incurred certain expenses related to official travel. C.P. and K.G. would sign the fraudulent reimbursement requests as the requesting employees, and Augustus would sign as the approving supervisor. The state would pay the requested amount to C.P. and K.G., who would split the proceeds with Augustus. This matter is being handled by the United States Attorney’s Office, the Louisiana State Police, the Louisiana Inspector General’s Office, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The matter is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Corey R. Amundson, who serves as the Chief of the Criminal Division, and Special Assistant United States Attorney J. Brad Casey. U.S. Attorney Green stated, “This case is a great illustration of federal and state agencies successfully working together to root out public corruption. Federal funding is often distributed through state and local entities and the integrity of that distribution network and those entrusted to protect it is vitally important. Our office, together with our federal, state, and local partners, will continue to aggressively battle public corruption wherever found.” Louisiana Inspector General Stephen Street commented, “The most disappointing thing about this case is the position of high trust held by Mr. Augustus within DCFS. He took full advantage of that trust to steal money from the taxpayers. Today’s guilty plea should send a clear message that the law enforcement community has zero tolerance for this sort of corruption, and will continue working together relentlessly to bring about criminal consequences for it. I want to again acknowledge and thank LSP Colonel Mike Edmonson, U.S. Attorney Walt Green, and FBI Special Agent in Charge Michael Anderson for the outstanding work done by their respective staffs on this case.” Colonel Mike Edmonson, Louisiana State Police Superintendent, stated, “There are no boundaries when it comes to federal, state, and local law enforcement working together to fight corruption at any level. The public demands that people in trusted positions are kept to and held to a higher standard of integrity. Violations of the public trust must be dealt with swiftly and directly.” DCFS leadership has fully cooperated with the investigation and has provided valuable assistance throughout. Such assistance and cooperation is highly commendable and reflects a collective determination by law enforcement and DCFS leadership to root out the corruption identified in this matter.
corruption NEWARK—Two corrections officers, a lawyer, and six others were charged today in three separate complaints with smuggling contraband, including cell phones and marijuana, into a federal pretrial detention facility at the Essex County Correctional Facility, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Corrections officer Stephon Solomon, 26, of Irvington, New Jersey; Darsell Davis, 28, Dwayne Harper, 30, and Deidra Harrison, 49, all of Newark; attorney Brian Kapalin, 66, of Maplewood, New Jersey; and Vladimir Sauzereseteo, 40, of East Orange, New Jersey, were arrested this morning by special agents of the FBI. Corrections officer Channel Lespinasse, 25, of Florham Park, New Jersey, was issued a summons. Quasim Nichols, 29, and Muhammad Subpunallah, 32, already are incarcerated on unrelated federal charges. “According to the complaints, the defendants operated contraband marketplace within the walls of the Essex County Correctional Facility,” said U.S. Attorney Fishman. “Jails are no place for drugs and illicit phones, and it is disappointing that two corrections officers and an attorney allegedly used their authority and access to make them available.” “The allegations in today’s complaints underscore the commitment of the FBI and the Department of Justice to continue to pursue those employed by the government who undermine the public’s trust and engage in unethical and corrupt practices,” said Special Agent in Charge Ford. “The FBI and our law enforcement partners are determined to address public corruption at all levels of government.” Solomon, Davis, Harper, Harrison, Kapalin, Sauzereseteo, Nichols, and Subpunallah are scheduled to make their initial appearances this afternoon before U.S. Magistrate Judge James B. Clark, III in Newark federal court. Lespinasse will appear for her initial appearance on June 2, 2014, before U.S. Magistrate Judge Michael A. Hammer in Newark. According to the complaints unsealed today: On at least five occasions between October 2013 and April 2014, Solomon, a corrections officer at the Essex County Correctional Facility, smuggled contraband—including cell phones, tobacco, and marijuana—to Nichols, an inmate there, in exchange for cash bribes. Nichols’ friends, Davis and Harper, helped by collecting the items that were to be smuggled into the jail. Davis then handed off the contraband and cash payments to Solomon. Nichols ultimately sold some of the marijuana and cell phones he received from Solomon to other inmates. The inmates purchasing marijuana and cell phones from Nichols had their friends and family pay for the items by sending Western Union money transfers to Nichols, who then enlisted Davis and others to retrieve the payments. Nichols also used the cell phones he received through this smuggling scheme to communicate with his conspirators. Lespinasse, another corrections officer at the Essex County Correctional Facility, also smuggled in contraband in exchange for a cash bribe. In November 2013, Lespinasse and an associate, Harrison, agreed to smuggle a cell phone to an inmate in the jail in exchange for a cash bribe. On behalf of Lespinasse, Harrison accepted a $1,000 cash bribe and a cell phone from an undercover agent in the parking lot of a McDonald’s restaurant in Newark. Harrison promised the undercover federal agent that the cell phone would be delivered to its recipient—an inmate in the jail. Three days later, Lespinasse delivered the cell phone to the inmate. Kapalin, a lawyer who practiced in New Jersey, used his access to inmates at the Essex County Correctional Facility to smuggle in contraband—including marijuana and tobacco—to inmates, including Subpunallah, in exchange for cash payments. Sauzereseteo, an associate of Subpunallah, delivered the contraband and the cash payments to Kapalin, who then smuggled the contraband into the jail. In January 2014, Kapalin spoke with Subpunallah—at that point an inmate at the Hudson County Correctional Facility—over a recorded jail phone. Subpunallah asked Kapalin to deliver contraband to an inmate at the Essex County Correctional Facility. Sauzereseteo was paid $1,650 via Western Union money transfers, which he used to purchase marijuana he delivered to Kapalin, along with a cash payment. A few days later, Kapalin met an inmate from the Essex County Correctional Facility in the attorney conference room at the jail, during which time he delivered the marijuana to the inmate. A search of the federal pods at the Essex County Correctional Facility on May 26, 2014, produced nine hidden cell phones, including one in the light fixture in the ceiling of Nichols’ cell. The criminal complaints charge Solomon, Nichols, Davis, Harper, Lespinasse, and Harrison each with one count of conspiring to violate the Hobbs Act, punishable by a maximum potential penalty of 20 years in prison and a maximum fine of the greatest of $250,000 or twice the gain or loss from the offense. The criminal complaints charge all nine defendants with one count of conspiring to provide contraband to inmates at the jail, a count that carries a maximum potential penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine for smuggling marijuana or one year in prison and $100,000 maximum fine for smuggling a cell phone. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford in Newark, and the Internal Affairs Division of Essex County Correctional Facility, under the leadership of Warden Roy Hendricks, with the ongoing investigation leading to today’s arrests. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Rahul Agarwal of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division and Rob Frazer of the Criminal Division, Organized Crime/Gangs Unit in Newark.
corruption TOPEKA, KS—A former Kansas state legislator pleaded guilty Tuesday to defrauding Farmers and Merchants Bank of Colby, Kansas, of more than $465,000, some of which he deposited in his campaign account, U.S. Attorney Barry Grissom said. Trent K. LeDoux, 40, Holton, Kansas, pleaded guilty to one count of bank fraud. In his plea, he admitted he applied for three loans from the bank, falsely representing that he was going to use all the funds to buy cattle that would serve as the collateral for the loans. In fact, he used some of the money to pay off existing debts and to make contributions to his political campaign account. Sentencing is set for August 11. He faces a maximum penalty of 30 years in federal prison and a fine up to $1 million. Grissom commended the FBI and Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard Hathaway for their work on the case.
corruption Preet Bharara, United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York,; Robert T. Johnson, the District Attorney for Bronx County; George Venizelos, the Assistant Director in Charge of the New York Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI); and William J. Bratton, Commissioner of the New York City Police Department (NYPD), announced today the arrest of John L. Montanez, a police officer with the NYPD, on charges of access device fraud, mail fraud, and identity theft. Montanez was arrested this morning at his residence in the Bronx, New York, and presented this afternoon in Manhattan federal court before U.S. Magistrate Judge Sarah Netburn. Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said, “As alleged, Police Officer John Montanez not only violated his oath to uphold the law but actively broke it when he himself engaged in fraud and identity theft. Corruption undermines the public’s confidence in law enforcement, particularly so when a police officer, out of greed, allegedly uses his position of authority not to stop crime but to help commit more crime. I want to thank our partners at the Bronx District Attorney’s Office, the FBI, and the NYPD for their work in this important case.” Bronx County District Attorney Robert T. Johnson said, “Police officers are sworn to uphold the laws, and it is most disturbing when those whose purpose is to combat crime instead engage in identity theft that not only victimizes the public, but also their fellow officers. This office will continue to work to prosecute these crimes with all due diligence.” FBI Assistant Director in Charge George Venizelos said, “As a police officer, Mr. Montanez was charged with enforcing the law. He was also rightfully expected to abide by the very laws he enforced. Today’s complaint tells a different story. We’ll continue to work with the New York City Police Department to investigate corruption wherever we find it.” NYPD Commissioner William J. Bratton said, “These charges evidence not only a significant breach of trust and abuse of authority but also serious criminal conduct on the part of a public servant. I commend the well-coordinated efforts of the federal and state prosecutors, the FBI, and our Internal Affairs Bureau in developing this case.” According to the allegations contained in the complaint unsealed today in Manhattan federal court: In 2011, an individual, who subsequently agreed to cooperate with law enforcement and who is referred to in the complaint as the CW, informed Montanez that the CW had a suspended and/or revoked driver’s license. In response, Montanez offered to provide the CW with the name and driver’s license number of a real person—so that if the CW were stopped by law enforcement, the CW could pretend to be someone else—in return for electronic items that the CW would purchase for Montanez with fraudulently obtained or stolen credit cards. After that, in return for the CW purchasing merchandise for Montanez and providing to Montanez credit card/debit card numbers that Montanez understood were stolen or fraudulently obtained, Montanez provided to the CW multiple names, dates of birth, and driver’s license identification numbers of other people. One such person, referred to in the complaint as Victim-1, was a fellow police officer with the NYPD, serving in the same precinct as Montanez. The CW was arrested in June 2013 and later began recording meetings with Montanez in connection with the CW’s cooperation with law enforcement. During these meetings, Montanez offered to provide additional identities to the CW in return for merchandise purchased with credit cards that Montanez believed that the CW had stolen or fraudulently obtained. In one recorded meeting between the CW and Montanez, Montanez explained to the CW that the CW should feel comfortable pretending to be Victim-1, stating, “It’s the best, cleanest guaranteed name you can ever have.” In another consensually recorded meeting between the CW and Montanez, in connection with discussing the CW looking to obtain from Montanez additional names and/or personal identification information of other persons, Montanez stated, “I can go into the precinct in plain clothes. It’s going to take me a couple of minutes. I can go inside and do whatever.” During one consensually recorded meeting, Montanez also stated, “I’m not the cop you think I am. I am  apiece of s—.” Montanez, 28, is charged with one count of access device fraud, one count of mail fraud, and one count of aggravated identity theft. He faces a maximum sentence of 32 years in prison, with a mandatory minimum term of two years in prison. The maximum potential sentence in this case is prescribed by Congress and is provided here for informational purposes only, as any sentencing of the defendant will be determined by the judge. Mr. Bharara praised the investigative work of the Bronx County District Attorney’s Office, the FBI, and the NYPD Internal Affairs Bureau. Mr. Bharara noted that the investigation is ongoing. The case is being handled by the Office’s Public Corruption Unit. Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel C. Richenthal is in charge of the prosecution. The charges contained in the complaint is merely an accusation, and the defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption SACRAMENTO, CA—Grand juries in Fresno and Sacramento have indicted eight current or former members of the California National Guard, in seven separate cases, charging them with wire fraud for fraudulently obtaining recruiting referral bonuses, United States Attorney Benjamin B. Wagner announced. According to court documents, the United States Army contracted with a company called Document and Packaging Broker Inc. (DOCUPAK) to administer the Guard Recruiting Assistance Program (G-RAP). Under G-RAP, members of the California National Guard served as Recruiting Assistants. If a recruiting assistant referred a potential guard member to a recruiting office and that person ultimately enlisted, the recruiting assistant was eligible to receive monetary compensation disbursed by DOCUPAK. Each of the defendants indicted today served in the California National Guard and is alleged to have played a role in causing DOCUPAK to issue unearned recruiting compensation by falsely claiming that various enlistees had been referred to recruiting offices by particular eligible recruiting assistant, when in fact they had not. Each of the indicted defendants is alleged to have received recruiting compensation as a result of those false referrals. U.S. Attorney Wagner stated, “Ripping off a program intended to enhance our armed services is not just illegal, it is reprehensible. We will continue to pursue those who attempt to undermine the military for their own personal profit.” “We take allegations of fraud very seriously in the U.S. Army and will continue to pursue those allegations with steadfast commitment and aggressive investigative techniques where ever the evidence leads us,” said Frank Robey, Director of the Major Procurement Fraud Unit of the Army’s Criminal Investigative Command. “The Army National Guard trusted the individuals indicted today to attract and assist others through the recruiting process, and compensated them for these efforts,” said Special Agent in Charge Monica M. Miller of the Sacramento FBI. “Instead, the recruiting assistants are alleged to have stolen federal funds by circumventing established processes, claiming recruitment of individuals whom they often had never met and, in some cases, diverting portions of the payments to others who are prohibited from receiving the funds.” “Today’s indictments reflect the essential interagency coordination between the California National Guard and law enforcement agencies across the nation,” said Major General David S. Baldwin, Adjutant General for the California National Guard. “We stand ready to fully cooperate with civil and law enforcement agencies as these cases progress, ensuring that those who fall short of the California Guard’s core values are held accountable.” These cases are the product of an ongoing investigation by the Army Criminal Investigative Command Major Procurement Fraud Unit, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Michael G. Tierney is prosecuting the Fresno cases and Assistant United States Attorney Matthew G. Morris is prosecuting the Sacramento cases. The defendants indicted today are as follows: Joaquin Cuenca, 36, of San Diego, was a recruiter and allegedly is responsible for causing $30,000 in fraudulent bonuses. Leonardo Pesta, 46, of Mountain View, was a recruiter and allegedly is responsible for causing $20,000 in fraudulent bonuses. Nicholas Huerta, 32, of Fresno, was a recruiter and allegedly is responsible for causing $25,000 in fraudulent bonuses. Jimmy Maldonado, 33, a recruiter, and his wife, Mayra Garcia Maldonado, 27, a recruiting assistant, both of Fresno, are allegedly responsible for causing $40,000 in fraudulent bonuses. Sarah N. Nattress, 26, of Paradise, was a recruiting assistant and is allegedly responsible for $28,000 in fraudulent bonuses. Brian M. Kaps, 40, of Chico, was a recruiting assistant and is allegedly responsible for $16,000 in fraudulent bonuses. Richard C. Sihner, 52, of Elk Grove, was a recruiting assistant and is allegedly responsible for $95,000 in fraudulent bonuses. Sihner is also charged with one count of making false statements to a federal agent. If convicted, each defendant faces a maximum statutory penalty of 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine for each count of wire fraud. Any sentence, however, would be determined at the discretion of the court after consideration of any applicable statutory factors and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, which take into account a number of variables. The charges are only allegations; the defendant is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption Preet Bharara, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, announced that Alfonso Portillo, the former president of Guatemala, was sentenced today in Manhattan federal court to 70 months in prison for laundering millions of dollars through bank accounts located in the United States. Portillo, who served as the president of Guatemala from January 14, 2000 to January 14, 2004, arrived in the Southern District of New York on May 24, 2013, after being extradited to the United States by the government of Guatemala. On March 18, 2014, Portillo pled guilty to the sole charge in the Indictment before United States District Judge Robert P. Patterson, who imposed today’s sentence. United States Attorney Preet Bharara said, “Alfonso Portillo, the former head of state in Guatemala, used his office as a siphon to extract millions of dollars in bribes from Taiwan. Today, he has been sentenced to a lengthy prison term for laundering the proceeds of his influence-peddling. The U.S. banking system is not open for business to those seeking to hide illegal funds.” According to the indictment, Portillo’s plea allocution, and the evidence at sentencing: From December 1999 through August 2002, while serving as president of Guatemala, Portillo received $2.5 million in bribery payments from the government of Taiwan. In his plea allocution, Portillo stated, “I understood that, in exchange for these payments, I would use my influence to have Guatemala continue to recognize Taiwan diplomatically.” Knowing that the $2.5 million was the proceeds of illegal payments from Taiwan, Portillo conspired with others to launder the $2.5 million through bank accounts located in the United States. Portillo also stated that he and others had the illegally obtained funds “carried from Guatemala to the United States” and then deposited into the U.S. accounts. The $2.5 million in payments consisted of five checks provided by the government of Taiwan’s Embassy in Guatemala. Three of the checks, totaling $1.5 million, were issued in 2000 and were endorsed personally by Portillo. Portillo then caused the checks to be deposited in a bank account in Miami, Florida. Two additional checks totaling $1 million were issued in 2002 and were made payable to a company known as Oxxy Financial Corp. (Oxxy Financial). These two checks were deposited at the International Bank of Miami in an account held by Oxxy Financial. As Portillo stated in his guilty plea allocution, these and other transactions were “designed, in part, to conceal and disguise the source and ownership of the money.” More than $1.5 million of the Taiwanese payments received by Portillo were ultimately deposited into bank accounts in the name of Portillo’s former wife and daughter at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria (BBVA) in Paris, France. Money transferred into the BBVA accounts was further laundered through financial institutions in Luxembourg and Switzerland, among other places. In addition to the prison term, Portillo, 62, was ordered to pay $2.5 million in forfeiture and a $100 special assessment fee. Mr. Bharara praised the outstanding investigative work of the New York Field Office of the Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI); DEA’s New York Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Strike Force—which is composed of agents and officers of the DEA, the New York City Police Department, Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s Homeland Security Investigations, the New York State Police, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation Division, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, U.S. Secret Service, and the U.S. Marshals Service—the DEA’s Guatemala Country Office; the Department of State; and the U.S. Department of Justice’s Office of International Affairs for their work in this investigation. Mr. Bharara also recognized and thanked the United Nations Commission Against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG), the Guatemalan Special Prosecutor’s Office for the CICIG, and the Ministerio Público in Guatemala for their assistance in the investigation. This prosecution is being handled by the Office’s Terrorism and International Narcotics Unit. Assistant United States Attorneys Adam Fee and Shane T. Stansbury are in charge of the prosecution.
corruption The former director of the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department was sentenced to eight months in a halfway house after having pleaded guilty to conspiracy in the case of former Detroit Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick, announced U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade. Joining on the announcement were Paul M. Abbate, Special Agent in Charge of the Detroit Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Carolyn Weber, Acting Special Agent in Charge, Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation Division; and Randall K. Ashe, Special Agent in Charge, Environmental Protection Agency, Criminal Investigation Division (EPA-CID). U.S. District Judge Nancy G. Edmunds imposed sentence on Victor Mercado, 62, of Stuart, Florida. According to the superseding information, from June 2002 to June 2008, Mercado served as director of the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department (DWSD), reporting directly to Kilpatrick. In this capacity, Mercado was responsible for administering more than $2 billion in contracts with private companies. The plea documents stated that Mercado, acting at the direction of Kilpatrick, unlawfully steered contracts and payments to Kilpatrick co-conspirator Bobby Ferguson. Mercado influenced the procurement process to Ferguson’s advantage and directed a bidder to include Ferguson on a DWSD contract if the bidder wanted to receive favorable consideration on the bid. Mercado took these steps as a result of regular and consistent pressure from Kilpatrick and his staff to help Ferguson obtain DWSD business regardless of procurement policies, rules, and regulations. “Although Mr. Mercado was acting under pressure from the mayor, he must be held accountable for abusing his position of trust and causing harm to the city,” McQuade said. “While director of the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department, Mr. Mercado violated the law by unlawfully steering business contracts at the direction of the former mayor,” stated Paul M. Abbate, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI Detroit Field Office. “This criminal conduct inflicted economic harm upon the city, and Mr. Mercado must be held accountable for his actions.” “Illegally influencing the bidding process for managing wastewater and sewage can significantly endanger public health and safety,” said Randall K. Ashe, Special Agent in Charge of EPA’s criminal enforcement program in Michigan. “As a public servant charged with protecting Detroit’s residents, these actions are particularly egregious. Today’s sentence sends a clear message that EPA and its partners will prosecute municipal officials that skirt their responsibility to protect those they serve.” “Public corruption remains a top priority for IRS-Criminal Investigation, and this case represents the value of the collaborate efforts of law enforcement to hold those in positions of public trust accountable,” said IRS Acting Special Agent in Charge Carolyn Weber. From January 2002 to January 2006, Kilpatrick served as special administrator over the DWSD. That designation, arising from a federal consent decree resolving a lawsuit alleging federal environmental violations, gave Kilpatrick authority to award DWSD contracts directly with outside parties, bypassing city procurement procedures, and also gave Kilpatrick responsibility over the operation of DWSD’s wastewater treatment plant to ensure compliance with environmental standards. As stated in the plea documents, Kilpatrick used his position as Mayor of Detroit and Special Administrator of DWSD to pressure city contractors to give subcontracts or payments obtained under those contracts to Ferguson, or risk having the contracts delayed, awarded to competitors, or canceled, resulting in economic harm. Invoking and otherwise exploiting his well-known affiliation with former Mayor Kilpatrick, Ferguson pressured city contractors to hire or pay him for DWSD contracts. This case was investigation by special agents of the FBI, IRS, and EPA-CID and was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Mark Chutkow, Michael Bullotta and Eric Doeh.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida; George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office; and Jose A. Gonzalez, Special Agent in Charge, Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI), announce that Garfield Perry, 67, of North Miami Beach, pled guilty to a one-count information charging him with conspiring to accept bribes in connection with programs receiving federal funds and to commit extortion, all in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371. Sentencing is scheduled for July 29, 2014, at 9:00 a.m. before U.S. District Judge Cecilia M. Altonaga. According to the stipulated statement of facts executed by the parties, from at least 2002 through 2009, Perry was the roadway lighting coordinator for the Department of Public Works in Miami-Dade County. In this capacity, Perry was responsible for, among other things, overseeing the maintenance of more than 22,000 street lights in the county’s roadway system. The information charges that from 2006 through October 2009, Perry accepted bribe payments from a manufacturer’s representative totaling approximately $150,000. Perry regularly directed the manufacturer’s representative to make the bribe payments by paying down debts owed by Perry, including payments on two home mortgages, one car loan, two home insurance policies, two car insurance policies, and eight credit cards. Perry accepted as bribe payments from the manufacturer’s representative cruise vacations, domestic and international airline tickets, payments for hotels, and theatre tickets. Perry regularly directed the manufacturer’s representative to make bribe payments by issuing checks payable to third parties, and, after the checks were cashed, determined the manner in which the proceeds were to be split. Perry falsely certified to Miami-Dade County that he was not engaged in any outside employment and did not receive any gratuities. In return for the bribe payments, Perry helped to ensure that lighting products used in Public Works’ projects were represented by the manufacturer’s representative. At sentencing, Perry faces a possible maximum statutory sentence of up to five years in prison. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI and IRS-CI. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeffrey N. Kaplan. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls.
corruption WASHINGTON—Sixteen current and former Puerto Rico police officers have been indicted for their alleged participation in a criminal organization, run out of the police department, that used their affiliation with law enforcement to make money through robbery, extortion, manipulating court records, and selling illegal narcotics. Acting Assistant Attorney General David A. O’Neil of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodríguez-Vélez of the District of Puerto Rico, and Special Agent in Charge Carlos Cases of the FBI’s San Juan Division made the announcement. “The criminal action today dismantles an entire network of officers who, we allege, used their badges and their guns not to uphold the law, but to break it,” said Acting Assistant Attorney General O’Neil. “The indictment portrays a classic criminal shakedown, an organized crime spree of which the most experienced mafia family would have been proud. But the people wielding the guns and stealing the drugs here weren’t mob goodfellas or mafia soldiers—these were police officers violating their oaths to enforce the law, making a mockery of the police’s sacred responsibility to protect the public.” “This is a troubling day for law enforcement in Puerto Rico. Officers who use their badges as an excuse to commit egregious acts of violence and drug trafficking are an affront to the rule of law,” said U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodríguez-Vélez. “According to these allegations, the law enforcement officers charged today sold their badges by taking payoffs from drug dealers that they should have been arresting—extorting money, planting evidence, and stealing from them, to mention a few of their crimes. They not only betrayed the citizens they were sworn to protect, they also betrayed the thousands of honest, hard-working law enforcement officers who risk their lives every day to keep us safe. We will continue to work with our local law enforcement partners to end this cycle of corruption and renew Puerto Rico’s trust in its police officers.” “Today is a sad day for Puerto Rico, where a group of police officers allegedly disgraced their uniform and are a shame to the Police of Puerto Rico,” said FBI Special Agent in Charge Cases. “They not only let their colleagues and family down, they let the citizens of Puerto Rico down.” The indictment, returned yesterday by a federal grand jury in the District of Puerto Rico, includes 36 charges against the following individuals: Osvaldo Vazquez-Ruiz, 38; Orlando Sierra-Pereira, 37; Danny Nieves-Rivera, 34; Roberto Ortiz-Cintron, 34; Yovanny Crespo-Candelaria, 33; Jose Sanchez-Santiago, 31; Miguel Perez-Rivera, 34; Nadab Arroyo-Rosa, 33; Jose Flores-Villalongo, 52; Luis Suarez-Sanchez, 36; Eduardo Montañez-Perez, 29; Carlos Laureano-Cruz, 40; Carlos Candelario-Santiago, 46; Ruben Casiano-Pietri, 36; Ricardo Rivera-Rodriguez, 39; Christian Valles-Collazo, 28. At the time of the crimes charged, Flores-Villalongo and Candelario-Santiago were sergeants with the Police of Puerto Rico (POPR); the others were police officers. The first 13 defendants listed are charged with conspiring to violate the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) Act. Other charges against certain defendants include extortion and attempted extortion under color of official right, conspiracy to commit robbery and attempted robbery, illegal use and sale of firearms, narcotics trafficking, civil rights violations, theft of government property, and false statements to federal agents. According to the indictment, the officers charged with RICO conspiracy were members of a criminal organization who sought to enrich themselves through a pattern of illegal conduct. The officers worked together to conduct traffic stops and enter homes or buildings used by persons suspected of being engaged in criminal activity to steal money, property, and narcotics. The officers planted evidence to make false arrests and then extorted money in exchange for their victims’ release from custody. In exchange for bribe payments, the defendants gave false testimony, manipulated court records, and failed to appear in court when required so that cases would be dismissed. The officers also sold and distributed wholesale quantities of narcotics. For example, in April 2012, defendants Vazquez-Ruiz and Sierra-Pereira allegedly conducted a traffic stop in their capacity as police officers and stole approximately $22,000 they believed to be illegal drug proceeds. Vazquez-Ruiz later attempted to extort approximately $8,000 from an individual they believed to be a drug dealer’s accomplice in exchange for promising to release an alleged prisoner. In another example, the indictment alleges that in November 2012, defendants Sierra-Pereira, Nieves-Rivera, Ortiz-Cintron, and Valles-Collazo illegally entered an apartment and stole approximately $30,000, which they believed were illegal lottery proceeds. The indictment charges that the defendants frequently shared the proceeds they illegally obtained and that they used their power, authority, and official positions as police officers to promote and protect their illegal activity. Among other things, the indictment charges that they used POPR firearms, badges, patrol cars, tools, uniforms, and other equipment to commit the crimes and concealed their illegal activity with fraudulently obtained court documents and falsified POPR paperwork to make it appear that they were engaged in legitimate police work. The charges contained in the indictment are merely accusations. The defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. The case is being investigated by the FBI’s San Juan Division. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Brian K. Kidd, Emily Rae Woods, and Menaka Kalaskar of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Mariana Bauza of the District of Puerto Rico. Citizens of Puerto Rico with allegations of law enforcement corruption are encouraged to contact the FBI’s San Juan Division at (787) 754-6000.
corruption Preet Bharara, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, announced today the guilty plea of Dinesh D’Souza to violating the federal election campaign law by making illegal contributions to a United States Senate campaign in the names of others. D’Souza, whose trial was scheduled to start today, pled guilty this morning in Manhattan federal court before U.S. District Judge Richard M. Berman. Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara stated, “Following the court’s ruling denying Dinesh D’Souza’s baseless claim of selective prosecution, D’Souza now has admitted, through his guilty plea, what we have asserted all along—that he knowingly and intentionally violated federal election laws. As our office’s record reflects, we will investigate and prosecute violations of federal law, particularly those that undermine the integrity of the democratic electoral process, without regard to the defendant’s political persuasion or party affiliation. That is what we did in this case and what we will continue to do.” According to the indictment, prior court filings, and statements made in court: The Federal Election Campaign Act (the Election Act) is designed to limit financial influence in the election of candidates for federal office, including the Office of United States Senator, and provides for the public disclosure of the financing of federal election campaigns. In particular, the Election Act limits the amount and source of money that may be contributed to a federal candidate or that candidate’s authorized campaign committee. The Election Act specifically prohibits any person from making any contribution in the name of another, including reimbursing a third person, before or after that third person’s contribution, as inducement to make that contribution. In 2012, the Election Act limited campaign contributions to $5,000 from any individual to any one candidate. In March 2012, D’Souza contributed $10,000 to the Senate campaign of Wendy Long on behalf of himself and his wife, agreeing in writing to attribute that contribution as $5,000 from his wife and $5,000 from him. In August 2012, D’Souza directed other individuals with whom he was associated, namely his assistant and a woman with whom he was romantically involved (the straw donors), to make contributions to Wendy Long’s campaign for the United States Senate (the Long campaign) on behalf of themselves and their spouses that totaled $20,000 with the promise that he would reimburse them for the contributions. Later that same day or the next day, D’Souza, as promised, reimbursed the straw donors $10,000 each in cash for the contributions. When confronted by Ms. Long, D’Souza initially misled the candidate before admitting what he had done. During the plea proceeding today, D’Souza admitted before the court that he caused two close associates to contribute $10,000 each to the Long Campaign with the understanding that he would reimburse them for their contributions and that he did reimburse them. D’Souza also admitted that he knew that what he was doing was wrong and something the law forbids. The court then accepted the guilty plea. Last week, Judge Berman denied a pretrial motion by D’Souza to dismiss the indictment for selective prosecution, ruling that there was “no evidence” to support D’Souza’s allegation. D’Souza, 53, of San Diego, California, faces a maximum sentence of two years in prison. The maximum potential sentence is prescribed by Congress and is provided here for informational purposes only, as the defendant’s sentence will be determined by the Court. He is scheduled to be sentenced by Judge Berman on September 23, 2014, at 11:00 a.m. Mr. Bharara praised the investigative work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. This case is being prosecuted by the Office’s Public Corruption Unit. Assistant United States Attorneys Carrie H. Cohen and Paul M. Krieger are in charge of the prosecution.
corruption TOPEKA, KS—The former city clerk of Auburn, Kansas, was charged in federal court here Tuesday with embezzling from the city, U.S. Attorney Barry Grissom said. Alice Riley, 61, Topeka, Kansas, is charged with one count of interstate transportation of stolen funds. A criminal information alleges the embezzlement began in 2009 while Riley was city clerk of Auburn, Kansas, a town of 1,200 in Shawnee County. She issued duplicate payroll checks to herself and other unauthorized checks which she deposited into her personal accounts. She covered up the embezzlement by creating false entries in the city’s books and bank statements. She is alleged to have embezzled at least $186,000 from the city. If convicted, she faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in federal prison and a fine up to $250,000. The FBI investigated. Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard Hathaway is prosecuting.
corruption ALBANY, NY—A federal jury in Albany found Joseph L. Bruno, the former New York State Senate Majority Leader, not guilty of honest-services mail fraud following a two-week trial before the Honorable Gary L. Sharpe, Chief United States District Judge. Today’s verdict follows a prior trial and two appeals. In December of 2009, a jury convicted Bruno of carrying out a scheme to defraud the state of New York and its citizens of the right to his honest services by soliciting private business from and entering into financial relationships with persons or entities who were pursuing interests before the New York State Legislature or other state agencies and concealing and failing to disclose the existence and true nature of such financial relationships and the resulting conflicts of interest, while taking discretionary official actions benefitting parties with whom he had those relationships. Then, in 2010, the United States Supreme Court decided United States v. Skilling, holding that the honest services statute criminalizes only fraudulent schemes involving bribes or kickbacks. On November 16, 2011, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit issued an opinion vacating Bruno’s conviction and authorizing a retrial, as requested by the United States. The Court of Appeals noted that the jury had been instructed pursuant to the law in effect at the time of the trial, which had not required bribery or kickbacks to constitute honest services fraud, but the subsequent Skilling decision had changed the law. In determining that a retrial was proper, the Court of Appeals reviewed the case against the elements of honest services fraud as altered by Skilling and held that the evidence presented at trial was sufficient for a reasonable jury to find that Bruno engaged in a quid pro quo bribery scheme under the standard announced in Skilling. On May 3, 2013, a federal grand jury returned a superseding indictment, and Bruno filed a motion to dismiss that indictment on double jeopardy grounds. Chief Judge Sharpe denied the motion, and Bruno filed an interlocutory appeal denied by the Second Circuit on August 6, 2013. United States Attorney Hartunian said, “Although this was not the outcome we expected based on the evidence presented, we believe that justice is served when a case is fully and fairly adjudicated before an impartial, attentive jury who listened to facts that were presented and tested by talented lawyers on both sides of the issue; that is what happened here, and we accept the jury’s verdict. We bring cases based on the facts and the law, not popularity or other good works, and we do not shy away from difficult cases, especially those involving the conduct of public officials who intertwine personal business and the public trust. No less than the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit examined this case and found that there was sufficient evidence of a quid pro quo bribery scheme for a reasonable jury to convict Mr. Bruno on these counts. As the history of this case demonstrates, whether Mr. Bruno’s conduct constituted a federal crime needed to be decided by a jury.” The investigation which led to this indictment was conducted by the Albany Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The United States was represented in this prosecution by Assistant United States Attorneys Elizabeth C. Coombe and William C. Pericak.
corruption CHARLESTON, WV—United States Attorney Booth Goodwin announced today that Darrin McCormick, 50, of Williamson, West Virginia, pled guilty to lying to federal agents from the FBI and IRS. McCormick, the former Williamson branch manager of the Bank of Mingo, admitted that he lied during an interview in February 2013 about suspicious banking activities undertaken by the principals of Aracoma Contracting LLC, a contract labor company providing employees to local coal companies. Aracoma, owned by Jerome Edward Russell, 50, of Williamson, and Frelin R. Workman, 58, of Belfrey, Kentucky, routinely sent employees to the Bank of Mingo’s Williamson branch to simultaneously withdraw cash in increments of $10,000, commonly referred to as “structuring,” so as not to trigger mandatory reporting to the IRS. Russell and Workman were using the cash to pay a cash payroll as part of a scheme to avoid payroll taxes and also to pay bribes to Arville W. Sargent, 52, of Chapmanville, a premium auditor employed by BrickStreet Mutual Insurance Company (BrickStreet). In exchange for cash, Sargent intentionally underreported Aracoma’s payroll, which resulted in reducing Aracoma’s insurance premium to BrickStreet. In February 2013, federal agents interviewed McCormick at his home in Williamson. He denied knowledge of Aracoma’s suspicious banking practice when specifically asked. At today’s hearing, McCormick admitted that he lied to the agents knowing it was important to a federal investigation. “Lying to federal investigators is always a serious crime, but it’s particularly disappointing when the lie comes from someone who’s both an elected officeholder and a bank official,” said U.S. Attorney Goodwin. “Cash structuring provides the fuel for any number of financial crimes—including bribery, as we saw with the auditor from BrickStreet—which is why it’s so important that banks report structuring when it happens. The defendant understood that perfectly well. It’s a shame he chose to deceive federal agents rather than help them get to the truth.” In October 2013, Sargent was sentenced to 72 months in prison and ordered to pay over $7 million in restitution to BrickStreet and the IRS for his role in the fraudulent scheme. Russell and Workman were sentenced to 30 months for their respective roles. The corporation, Ararcoma, was ordered to pay $405,000 in forfeiture to the United States as part of its sentence. McCormick faces up to five years in prison and $250,000 fine. Sentencing is scheduled for August 28, 2014, at 2 p.m. This investigation was conducted by the FBI and IRS Criminal Investigation, with assistance from the West Virginia State Police and the West Virginia Insurance Commission. Assistant United States Attorney Thomas Ryan is handling the prosecution.
corruption TRENTON, NJ—Trenton Mayor Tony F. Mack was sentenced today to 58 months in prison after being convicted at trial in February on all six federal extortion, bribery, and mail and wire fraud charges against him, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Mack’s brother, Ralphiel Mack, who was also convicted on three of the charges but found not guilty on three mail fraud and wire fraud counts, was sentenced to 30 months in prison. The Macks had been convicted following a five-week trial before U.S. District Judge Michael A. Shipp, who imposed the sentences today in Trenton federal court. The Macks were charged in connection with a scheme to accept $119,000 in bribes in exchange for Mayor Mack’s official actions and influence in assisting cooperating witnesses in the development of an automated parking garage on city-owned land. “Nearly four years ago, Tony Mack raised his hand and swore to uphold the state and federal constitutions as he assumed the office of mayor of the capital city of New Jersey,” U.S. Attorney Fishman said. “Within 10 weeks, he began selling that office and, with the help of his brother and others, he sold out the people of Trenton in the process. Today, he learned the true cost of his actions: He will spend 58 months in federal prison.” “Instead of providing transparent government to the citizens of Trenton, Tony Mack and his brother allowed themselves to succumb to self-interest and greed,” FBI Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford said. “This investigation brought to light the unsavory underworld of secret meetings with convicted felons, the calculated use of ‘buffers’ and bagmen, and bribe payments associated with inside deals to give away the city’s treasures, its property. The citizens of Trenton are entitled to political figures who discharge their duties with goodness of heart and not those motivated by personal gain.” Tony F. Mack, 48, and Ralphiel Mack, 41, both of Trenton, originally were charged by complaint on September 10, 2012, with one count of conspiracy to obstruct commerce by extortion under color of official right related to the $119,000 extortion scheme. Also charged at that time was Joseph A. Giorgianni, 64, of Ewing, New Jersey. An indictment returned in December 2012 added charges against all three defendants. Giorgianni pleaded guilty on December 13, 2013, to one count of conspiring with the Macks and others to obstruct interstate commerce by extorting individuals under color of official right, in addition to a separate extortion scheme, a narcotics charge and illegal weapons possession, all charges unrelated to the Macks. Mayor Mack was convicted of the six counts charged in the indictment: Conspiracy to obstruct and affect interstate commerce by extortion under color of official right Attempted obstruction of commerce by extortion under the color of official right Accepting and agreeing to accept bribes Two counts of wire fraud Mail fraud Ralphiel Mack was convicted on the same first three counts and found not guilty of the mail and wire fraud charges. The jury members deliberated for seven hours before returning their verdicts. According to documents filed in this case and the evidence presented at trial: Tony Mack, Giorgianni, and Ralphiel Mack conspired to accept approximately $119,000 in cash and other valuables, of which $54,000 was accepted and another $65,000 that the defendants planned to accept from two cooperating witnesses (CW-1 and CW-2). In exchange for the payments, Tony Mack agreed to and did assist CW-1 and CW-2 in their efforts to acquire a city-owned lot (East State Street Lot) to develop an automated parking garage (the Parking Garage Project). The scheme included a plan to divert $100,000 of the purchase amount that CW-2 had indicated a willingness to pay to the city of Trenton for the lot as a bribe and kickback payment to Giorgianni and Tony Mack. The mayor authorized and directed a Trenton official responsible for disposition of city-owned land to offer the East State Street Lot to CW-2 for $100,000, significantly less than the amount originally proposed by CW-2. The defendants went to great lengths to conceal their corrupt activity to keep Tony Mack “safe” from law enforcement. For example, Giorgianni and Ralphiel Mack acted as intermediaries, or “buffers,” who accepted cash payments for Tony Mack’s benefit. Tony Mack also used another city of Trenton employee involved in the scheme, Charles Hall, III, 49, of Trenton, to contact other Trenton officials to facilitate the Parking Garage Project and to inform the mayor when Giorgianni had received corrupt cash payments. Hall pleaded guilty before Judge Shipp in February 2013 to an information charging him with one count of conspiracy to obstruct commerce by extortion under color of official right and one count of conspiring to distribute narcotics with others, including Giorgianni. To conceal the corrupt arrangement, the defendants avoided discussing matters related to the scheme over the telephone. When those matters were discussed, they used code words and aliases. One such code word was “Uncle Remus,” which both Giorgianni and Hall regularly used to communicate to Tony Mack that a corrupt payment had been received. For example, on October 29, 2011, Giorgianni telephoned Hall and informed him that Giorgianni had to “see” Tony Mack and that “I got Uncle Remus for him,” meaning a corrupt cash payment that Giorgianni had received from CW-1 two days earlier. Giorgianni directed Hall to bring Tony Mack to a meeting location controlled by Giorgianni (Giorgianni’s Clubhouse), stating “we gotta talk” because “I got something that might be good for him” and that “they’ve already come with Uncle Remus,” meaning a corrupt cash payment. On June 13, 2012, Giorgianni telephoned Tony Mack and informed him that “Uncle Remus,” meaning a corrupt cash payment, “was there.” Tony Mack replied, “I’ll call you, J. Okay?” In text messages to Tony Mack related to the scheme, Giorgianni would refer to himself as “Mr. Baker.” The defendants also concealed their activities by holding meetings concerning the corrupt activity away from Trenton City Hall, including at Giorgianni’s residence, a restaurant maintained by Giorgianni known as JoJo’s Steakhouse, Giorgianni’s Clubhouse, and Atlantic City restaurants. At one Atlantic City meeting among Tony Mack, Giorgianni, Hall, and CW-2, Tony Mack instructed Giorgianni to ensure that no photographs were taken in order to conceal the corrupt arrangement. In addition to the prison terms, Judge Shipp sentenced Tony Mack to three years of supervised release, 100 hours of community service, and fined him $3,000. He sentenced Ralphiel Mack to three years of supervised release and fined him $1,500. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI’s Trenton Resident Agency, Newark Field Office, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford, for the investigation leading to today’s sentencings. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Eric W. Moran and Matthew J. Skahill of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division in Trenton and Camden, respectively.
corruption Preet Bharara, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, announced that Samuel Pierre, who was employed by a member of Congress at the time of his offense, was sentenced yesterday in Manhattan federal court to three months home confinement for accepting an illegal gratuity in return for promising to provide immigration-related assistance that never was provided. Pierre’s co-defendant, Kenol Janvier, previously was sentenced to four months home confinement for his role in the offense. Pierre and Janvier both were sentenced by U.S. Magistrate Judge Kevin N. Fox. According to court filings and statements made in court: From 2007 to July 2009, Pierre was employed by a member of Congress as a Brooklyn South liaison in the Congressman’s District Office in Brooklyn, New York. As the Brooklyn South liaison, Pierre’s job responsibilities included helping the Congressman’s constituents with immigration-related issues, by, for example, inquiring about the status of constituents’ immigration-related matters pending before the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). In the late spring or early summer of 2008, Pierre was a guest on a radio show hosted by Janvier, and they discussed, among other things, Pierre’s job with the Congressman and issues related to the Haitian community, including immigration. During the radio show, listeners were invited to call in with any questions, but rather than help certain listeners who called the show seeking immigration-related advice, Janvier and/or Pierre instructed them to call “the office” for free assistance. The “office” phone number, however, was Janvier’s cell phone number, and when listeners called it, Janvier arranged to meet them in person. Janvier then met with these individuals and promised that Pierre and he would be able to assist them with their immigration-related matters in exchange for a set fee. Janvier took hundreds of dollars from the individuals as a down payment for the promised help with their immigration-related matter. Thereafter, Pierre and Janvier spoke to the individuals on the phone, including using a landline phone at the Congressman’s District Office, regarding the remainder of the fee due, which some of them later paid to Janvier. In connection with the scheme, Pierre sent e-mails using his Congressional e-mail account in which he, on behalf of the Congressman’s office, inquired about the status of these individuals’ immigration-related matters and claimed that the individuals were constituents of the Congressman when, in truth and in fact, they were not. The individuals were unaware that these e-mails had been sent and never received any actual assistance with their immigration-related matters from either Pierre or Janvier. When the individuals who had paid Janvier to help them tried to contact Pierre and Janvier to inquire about the status of their immigration matters, including visiting Pierre at the Congressman’s Office, Pierre and Janvier either did not return the calls or continued to promise to help them but did not. Later, when the individuals demanded the return of their money, Pierre and Janvier ignored their requests and never paid them back. In connection with the scheme, Pierre took money and things of value from Janvier. In addition, Pierre took money from Janvier in connection with Janvier’s own immigration matter and sent e-mails from his Congressional e-mail account to DHS and wrote a letter from the Congressman’s office to a federal government immigration office about Janvier’s immigration application. In addition to home confinement, Judge Fox sentenced Pierre, 29, of Brooklyn, New York, to three years of probation and ordered him to pay a $5,000 fine and a $25 special assessment fee. In addition, Pierre was ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $11,300 jointly and severally with Janvier. Janvier, 45, of Brooklyn, New York, previously was sentenced on April 24, 2014, by Judge Fox to four months home confinement and three years of probation and was ordered to pay a $25 special assessment fee. In addition, Janvier was ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $11,300 joint and several with Pierre. Mr. Bharara praised the investigative work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. These prosecutions are being handled by the Office’s Public Corruption Unit. Assistant United States Attorney Carrie H. Cohen is in charge of the prosecutions. Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption CHICAGO—A retired City of Chicago official who managed the city’s red light camera program for nearly a decade was arrested today for allegedly accepting cash and personal benefits totaling hundreds of thousands of dollars to steer $124 million in city contracts to Redflex Traffic Systems Inc. to establish, operate, and expand the program. The defendant, John Bills, allegedly received cash bribes, other forms of payment, and an Arizona condominium, all funneled from Redflex through unnamed Individual A, Bills’ one-time friend who received $2 million in salary, bonuses, and commissions as a consultant to Redflex. Bills, 52, of Chicago, was charged with one count of federal program bribery in a criminal complaint that was filed yesterday and unsealed today. Bills was scheduled to appear at 3 p.m. before U.S. Magistrate Judge Maria Valdez in federal court. Between 2003, when the city awarded Phoenix-based Redflex its initial contract, and 2011, Bills allegedly received from Individual A cash and checks directly and indirectly for his benefit, including to repay loans, for his retirement party, and catering for another party. Individual A also purchased for Bills a Glendale, Arizona condominium for $177,000, which Bills, often with friends and family, visited 22 times between May 2008 and 2012. Bills, who retired in 2011 as managing deputy commissioner of the city’s transportation department after 32 years with the city, managed the city’s red light program and served as a member of the city’s contract evaluation committee. According to an FBI affidavit supporting the charges, in October 2003, the city awarded a contract to Redflex for the installation, maintenance, and operation of the city’s first Digital Automated Red Light Enforcement Program (DARLEP), which used cameras to automatically record and ticket drivers who ran red lights. Between 2004 and 2008, the city paid Redflex approximately $25 million under this contract, and Redflex installed and maintained 136 camera systems in Chicago intersections and assisted in reviewing and processing violations. Bills, then assistant transportation commissioner, was a voting member of the city’s request for proposal (RFP) evaluation committee that recommended awarding the contract to Redflex after a one-month trial run of competing systems by Redflex and another finalist. In February 2008, the city awarded a new, non-competitive contract to Redflex to operate and maintain the previously installed 136 camera systems and paid Redflex approximately $33 million under that contract. Also in February 2008, following the competitive RFP process, the city awarded a new DARLEP contract to Redflex that was similar to the first. Bills was an advisory member of this RFP evaluation committee. The city paid Redflex approximately $66 million under this contract, which resulted in approximately 248 red light cameras being installed, bringing the total number of Redflex cameras to 384 and the total amount the city has paid Redflex to approximately $124 million. By 2010, Chicago had the largest red light camera program in the United States, representing 20 percent of the total camera systems that Redflex operated nationwide. For Redflex, a subsidiary of Australian-based Redflex Holdings Ltd., the Chicago contract was its most important because of the revenue it generated and the name recognition it gave the company, according to the affidavit. The complaint affidavit is supported by information from Confidential Source 1 (CS1), a former Redflex employee who initially provided Bills in 2002 with an unsolicited proposal to install red light cameras in Chicago. Frequent communications between CS1 and Bills led CS1 to understand that Bills was trying to determine if he could get money from Redflex in return for the company getting the red light camera contract. Shortly after a January 3, 2003 pre-bid meeting that CS1 attended with other vendors, Bills asked CS1 to get him and his friends a hotel room in Los Angeles. CS1 paid for Bills’ hotel room with the approval of CS1’s superiors, believing that it would influence Bills to help Redflex get the Chicago contract. As CS1 anticipated, Bills did not offer and did not reimburse CS1 for the hotel room and instead thanked CS1, who submitted a voucher and was reimbursed by Redflex. Between February and May 2003, during a pilot phase with Redflex and a competing vendor, Redflex paid for drinks and meals for Bills. Upon Bills’ recommendation, Redflex hired Company A as a subcontractor. In May 2003, before the city contract was awarded, Bills made comments to remind CS1 that Bills was being courted by the competing vendor. After Bills and CS1 strategized to ensure a favorable result, on May 27, 2003, the evaluation committee and city transportation commissioner recommended that Redflex be awarded the DARLEP contract, which went into effect in October 2003. At a celebratory dinner in June 2003, Bills allegedly told CS1 words to the effect of “It’s time to make good,” which CS1 understood to mean that Bills wanted and expected to be paid for helping Redflex win the Chicago contract. Bills allegedly floated alternative suggestions for funneling benefits to him, including suggesting that Redflex could pay him through the newly created Chicago customer liaison position. During the summer and fall of 2003, Redflex hired Individual A to fill that position and negotiated his compensation structure. In addition to salary and bonuses, Redflex payments to Individual A included commissions totaling more than $1.34 million between 2008 and 2011. Before Bills retired, he allegedly made it known to CS1 and other Redflex employees that he wanted a job with Redflex. After it was decided that Redflex could not hire him directly, Redflex arranged for Bills to get a job with Company B, which was funded by Redflex. That job lasted through the early spring of 2012. The affidavit alleges that between late 2003 and November 2012, Individual A and Bills used several different methods to transfer funds to Bills. In 2008, Individual A purchased the Glendale, Arizona condominium for Bills’ use. In addition, checks written on Individual A’s bank account were used to repay debts Bills had accumulated and also to pay for personal expenses of Bills and his family. Individual A also withdrew large amounts of cash, totaling more than $643,000 between 2006 and 2011, which temporally correspond to Bills’ repayment of loans as well as Bills’ payment of numerous personal expenditures, including purchasing a $12,500 used Mercedes-Benz, with cash. Although some of Bills’ cash expenditures do not correspond to specific withdrawals by Individual A, Bills’ financial records reflect no withdrawals of cash by him to support the personal expenditures. In fact, records reflect very little cash on-hand by Bills during this time period. The charges were announced by Zachary T. Fardon, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois; Robert J. Holley, Special Agent in Charge of the Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; James C. Lee, Special Agent in Charge of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation Division in Chicago; and Joseph Ferguson, Inspector General for the City of Chicago. The investigation is continuing, they said. The government is being represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Carrie Hamilton and Laurie Barsella. Federal program bribery carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. If convicted, the court must impose a reasonable sentence under federal sentencing statutes and the advisory United States Sentencing Guidelines. The public is reminded that a complaint contains only charges and is not evidence of guilt. The defendant is presumed innocent and is entitled to a fair trial at which the government has the burden of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption SAN JOSE—John Nyunt pleaded guilty yesterday in federal court to extortion and wire fraud, announced United States Attorney Melinda Haag and FBI Special Agent in Charge David J. Johnson. In pleading guilty, Nyunt admitted that he obtained property from a victim who came to the police department to report a crime. Specifically, Nyunt told the victim that the police department would not investigate her complaint that she was the victim of electronic surveillance and stalking. Instead of taking official action, Nyunt instructed the victim to seek the assistance of a private investigative agency. Nyunt ran said investigative agency with the assistance of another person. Upon receiving the request for assistance at his investigative agency, Nyunt and his accomplice pretended to investigate the victim’s complaint and also pretended to provide the victim with security in the form of off-duty police officers, neither of which was true. The victim paid Nyunt and his accomplice $10,000 for their purported services. Nyunt also admitted that he instructed another Pacific Grove police officer not to make an official investigation of the victim’s complaint and rather to give Nyunt any evidence provided by the victim. Nyunt maintained a file of this evidence without the knowledge of the police department. When the victim could make no further payments for the services of the investigative agency, Nyunt told her falsely that the police department and the FBI would continue to investigate her complaint. Furthermore, Nyunt admitted that he gave his accomplice his departmental password, and access, to a commercial database intended for the sole use of law enforcement. He did so without the authorization or knowledge of the police department in order that his accomplice could obtain financial and personal information belonging to various other people. With Nyunt’s knowledge, his accomplice presented herself falsely as an authorized departmental user of the commercial database and did, in fact, obtain financial and personal information belonging to various people. Nyunt concealed this wrongful use from the department in part by making false statements to department officials. On April 24, 2014, Nyunt pleaded guilty in state court in Monterey County to one count of dissuading a person from reporting a crime by threats of violence, one count of being an accessory after the fact to theft and burglary, and one count of being an accomplice to the burglary of a business, all felonies, and received a sentence of three years’ imprisonment. Nyunt is currently being held in federal custody. Nyunt, 51, was charged by information on April 24, 2014, with one count of extortion, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1951, and one count of wire fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1343. Under the plea agreement, Nyunt pleaded guilty to both counts. Nyunt’s sentencing hearing is scheduled for September 2, 2014, at 9:00 a.m., before the Honorable Beth L. Freeman, United States District Court Judge, in San Jose. The maximum statutory penalty for each count in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1951 and 1343 is 20 years’ imprisonment and a fine of $250,000, plus restitution. Pursuant to the binding plea agreement, if accepted by the court, the parties have agreed that the defendant should be sentenced to two years’ imprisonment, to run concurrent with his state sentence. However, any sentence will be imposed by the court only after consideration of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and the federal statute governing the imposition of a sentence, 18 U.S.C. § 3553. Philip A. Guentert is the Assistant U.S. Attorney who is prosecuting the case with the assistance of Elise Etter. This investigation was conducted jointly by the FBI and investigators from the Monterey County District Attorney’s Office.
corruption ROME, GA—Former Murray County Chief Magistrate Judge Bryant L. Cochran has been indicted for sexually assaulting a county employee for framing a woman who alleged that she had been sexually propositioned by Cochran and for tampering with a witness. “Cochran is charged with crimes that reflect that he completely abused the power and trust given to him by the people of Murray County,” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. “First, he attempted to use his judicial position to solicit sexual favors from a female citizen. And, once the alleged misconduct came to light, Cochran tried to use his power and influence to cover up the incident by having the citizen framed for drug possession and by tampering with a witness.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated, “This latest indictment brings to light additional details of an orchestrated scheme full of false allegations lodged against one citizen but, in the end, costing the careers and reputations of those public servants making them. The FBI will continue to work with its various law enforcement partners in investigating all matters regarding public corruption.” “It is important for citizens to have confidence in public officials, especially those entrusted with upholding and enforcing the law. The indictment of Cochran shows that people in these positions will be held accountable when they are involved in criminal activity. The GBI is committed to work with our federal partners to insure those in a position of trust are held accountable,” said Vernon Keenan, Director, the Georgia Bureau of Investigation. According to United States Attorney Yates, the charges, and other information presented in court, from January 1, 2004 to August 15, 2012, Bryant Cochran served as the Chief Magistrate Judge in Murray County, Georgia. In that position, Cochran sexually assaulted a Murray County employee and unlawfully searched the personal cell phone of another Murray County employee. In addition, on April 9, 2012, Cochran met with a female citizen regarding a legal matter. During the meeting, Cochran made inappropriate sexual advances towards the citizen. By mid-July 2012, the allegations of Cochran’s sexual misconduct towards the citizen had become public. In response, Cochran called several local police officers providing them with a “tip” that the citizen carried drugs in her vehicle. In an effort to discredit the citizen, on or about August 12, 2012, Clifford J. Joyce (who was a tenant of Cochran’s and who has been convicted of conspiring to distribute a controlled substance) planted a metal tin containing five packets of methamphetamine under the fender of the citizen’s car. Two days later, on August 14, 2012, Murray County Sheriff’s Office Deputy Joshua Greeson (who has since been convicted of witness tampering) conducted a traffic stop on a car occupied by the citizen. During the traffic stop, several officers and a police drug dog searched the car for approximately 15 to 20 minutes—but did not find any drugs. Thereafter, Captain Michael Henderson (who is Cochran’s cousin and who has also been convicted of witness tampering) had an approximately two minute telephone conversation with Cochran. Following that call, Henderson told an officer at the scene that according to his information; the citizen hid her drugs in a magnetic box under the left, rear tire well. Upon receiving that information, Greeson found the metal box magnetically attached to the car in that precise location. Inside the box, Greeson recovered five small packets containing methamphetamine. Greeson then told the citizen that he had recovered drugs from her car. At that point, the citizen stated that she had been set up. Despite this, Greeson arrested the citizen and transported her to jail. On August 15, 2012, the day after the arrest, Cochran resigned his position as Murray County’s Chief Magistrate Judge. On August 22, 2012, Joyce admitted to law enforcement officers that he planted drugs—after which the local District Attorney dismissed the charges against the woman. Finally, in an apparent effort to cover up the framing of the woman, Cochran tried to persuade a witness to provide false information to law enforcement officers. On May 13, 2014, a federal grand jury indicted Cochran, 44, of Chatsworth, Georgia, for: (1) conspiracy against rights; (2) deprivation of rights under color of law, (3) conspiracy to distribute a controlled substance, and (4) tampering with a witness. The most serious of the charges carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000. In determining the actual sentence, the court will consider the United States Sentencing Guidelines, which are not binding but provide appropriate sentencing ranges for most offenders. Members of the public are reminded that the indictment only contains charges. The defendant is presumed innocent of the charges and it will be the government’s burden to prove the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt at trial. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Georgia Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorneys Jeffrey W. Davis and William L. McKinnon Jr. are prosecuting the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Pressemails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Rome Division is http://www.justice.gov/usao/gan/.
corruption NEWARK—A Monmouth County, New Jersey man who formerly worked as a sheriff’s officer in Essex County was sentenced today to 15 months in prison for conspiring to collect a debt using extortionate means, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. John Balsamo, 50, of West Long Branch, New Jersey, previously pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Katharine S. Hayden to an indictment charging him with using threats of violence and economic harm to collect a debt from the victim, an Ocean County, New Jersey construction contractor. Judge Hayden imposed the sentence today in Newark federal court. According to documents filed in this case and statements made in court: Balsamo and conspirators Timothy Kelly, 38, of Jersey City, New Jersey, and Robert C. Bantang, Jr., 45, of Oceanport, New Jersey, used extortionate means in order to collect $50,000 the contractor owed to Kelly from 2009. The conspirators made the victim believe that the money he had borrowed from Kelly was owed to the “Old Man,” a member of organized crime who would cause physical harm to the victim if the debt was not paid. Balsamo also displayed a key to a construction site where the victim was working in Brick, New Jersey, and warned that the key could be used to gain access to and cause damage to the site, due to the victim’s failure to fully repay the debt. Balsamo and Kelly sent Bantang to the construction site on three occasions to deliver threats purportedly on behalf of the Old Man. On March 24, 2011, Balsamo and Kelly went to the Brick construction site, which was now a completed restaurant, to confront the victim. Kelly told the victim that if he had brought his “boys” that it would have gotten “done right in here, right in this place, right like this, in front of everybody...and your wife gets it too.” Kelly also told the victim that he deserved “a beatin’ just out of f-—kin’ principle.” Balsamo warned that the Old Man wanted to “beat the shit” out of the restaurant owner due to the victim’s failure to repay the debt, which Balsamo and Kelly now stated had grown to $70,000. Balsamo also advised the victim that the Old Man has been “promoted,” implying that the Old Man now possessed a higher position in organized crime. Kelly and Bantang previously pleaded guilty in February 2012 to conspiring to collect a debt from the victim using extortionate means, before Judge Hayden. Kelly was sentenced today to three years of probation, including four months of house arrest and 40 hours of community service. Bantang was sentenced to three years of probation. In addition to the prison term, Judge Hayden sentenced Balsamo to two years of supervised release and ordered him to pay restitution of $2,500 in cash and a Rolex watch he had taken from the victim. Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford in Newark, and special agents of the New Jersey State Commission of Investigation, under the direction of Executive Director Philip James Degnan, for the investigation leading to today’s sentencings. The government is represented by Senior Litigation Counsel Leslie F. Schwartz of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Economic Crime Unit in Newark.
corruption JACKSON, MS—Former Jackson Police Officer Tony Davis, of Clinton, was sentenced in U.S. District Court today to 25 months in federal prison for bribery, announced U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis and FBI Special Agent in Charge Daniel McMullen. He was also ordered to pay a $5,000 fine. Davis pled guilty to the bribery charge in December 2013, admitting that, while employed as a patrol sergeant with the Jackson Police Department in 2010, Davis advised another Jackson Police officer that he would pay the officer $10,000 if he would assist Davis in disposing of an outstanding drug charge against a defendant Davis knew. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Jerry Rushing.
corruption PIKEVILLE—The former mayor of Martin, Kentucky has been convicted of intentionally violating voters’ civil rights during her reelection campaign in 2012. On Thursday evening, a federal jury in Pikeville, Kentucky, convicted former Martin Mayor Ruth Thomasine Robinson, 69, of conspiracy to violate civil rights and one count of vote buying. The jury also convicted her husband, James “Red” Robinson, 64, of the conspiracy count and one vote buying count. Her stepson, James Steven Robinson, 32, was found guilty of the conspiracy count and two of three vote buying counts and another co-defendant, Johnny T. Moore, 32, was acquitted of all charges. The jury returned the verdicts after approximately two hours of deliberation, following three days of trial. According to evidence introduced at trial, Thomasine Robinson and her co-conspirators intimated poor and disabled citizens in order to gain their votes during the 2012 general election in Martin. For instance, members of the conspiracy directed residents of public housing to vote by absentee ballot under the supervision of Thomasine Robinson or another member of the conspiracy. The members of the conspiracy also targeted residents of private housing owned and leased by Thomasine Robinson. The trial testimony established that the members of the conspiracy filled out absentee ballots, marking the conspirators’ choice of candidates, and then had the voters sign the pre-marked ballots. Voters who cooperated with this arrangement and voted for Thomasine Robinson received promises of better living arrangements and other consideration. Voters who did not comply faced consequences such as eviction and the loss of priority for public housing. In addition, the evidence at trial established that the defendants offered to pay several voters to vote for Thomasine Robinson. Kerry B. Harvey, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky; Perrye K. Turner, Special Agent in Charge, FBI; and Jack Conway, Kentucky Attorney General, jointly announced the conviction. The investigation was conducted by the FBI and the Kentucky Attorney General’s Office. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Kenneth R. Taylor and Andrew T. Boone represent the federal government in this case. Sentencing is scheduled for September 9. The defendants face a maximum of 10 years in prison for the conspiracy offense and a maximum of five years in prison on the vote buying offenses. However, the court must consider the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and the federal statutes before imposing a sentence.
corruption WASHINGTON—The former executive director of the legislature of the Virgin Islands was indicted today by a federal grand jury in the Virgin Islands for accepting bribes and engaging in extortion in the award of contracts with the legislature, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General David A. O’Neil of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Ronald W. Sharpe for the District of the Virgin Islands. The indictment charges Louis “Lolo” Willis, 56, of St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, with three counts of federal programs bribery and three counts of extortion under color of official right. According to the indictment, Willis was the executive director of the legislature between 2009 and 2012. One of his responsibilities included oversight of the renovation of the legislature building, which included awarding and entering into contracts on behalf of the legislature. These contracts included contracts for general construction, air conditioning services and carpentry, which were not publicly bid. Willis was also responsible for paying the contractors for their work. As alleged in the indictment, Willis accepted payments, including, among other things, thousands of dollars in cash, from three contractors in exchange for using his official position to secure contracting work for the contractors and to ensure they received payment upon completion. An indictment is merely an accusation, and a defendant is presumed innocent unless proven guilty in a court of law. This case was investigated by the FBI’s San Juan Division, the Office of the Virgin Islands Inspector General, and the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Peter Mason and Jennifer Blackwell of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and First Assistant U.S. Attorney Thomas Anderson of the District of the Virgin Islands.
corruption ATLANTA—Former Fulton County Deputy Sheriff Reginald Warren pleaded guilty in federal court to charges that he demanded bribe payments from security officers assigned to work at the city of Atlanta’s public swimming pools. “Those who work within the law enforcement community must maintain the public’s trust and respect,” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. “By entering his guilty plea, he acknowledges he violated his oath of office and betrayed those he promised to protect.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated, “The integrity of those working within our law enforcement community is paramount in maintaining a criminal justice system that the public can trust. The FBI will continue to dedicate significant investigative resources toward such public corruption matters that have the potential to do so much harm.” According to United States Attorney Yates, the charges, and other information presented in court, during the summer of 2011, while Warren was employed as a deputy with the Fulton County Sheriff’s Office, he contracted with the city of Atlanta to coordinate and supervise security at the city’s public swimming pools. In that capacity, Warren hired a number of security officers and scheduled them to work various shifts at pools located throughout the city. Soon after the officers were hired, Warren demanded payments from at least three officers in exchange for continuing to schedule them for more work. Over a three-month period, Warren, 50, of Covington, Georgia, accepted thousands of dollars in kickbacks. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Brent Alan Gray is prosecuting the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Pressemails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Atlanta Division is http://www.justice.gov/usao/gan/.
corruption CHICAGO—The former longtime elected clerk for the Village of Burnham was charged today with stealing more than $650,862 from her office at the south suburb’s village hall and using most of the cash to gamble at casinos. The defendant, Nancy Dobrowski, was charged with one count each of wire fraud and filing a false federal income tax return in a criminal information filed in U.S. District Court. Dobrowski, 70, of Burnham, served as Burnham’s elected clerk from 1980 until she resigned on May 29, 2013, when FBI agents executed a federal search warrant at the clerk’s village hall office. Through her attorney, Dobrowski authorized the government to disclose that she will plead guilty to the charges. No date has been set yet for Dobrowski to be arraigned in federal court. As clerk, Dobrowski was responsible for managing Burnham’s finances and depositing cash and checks collected by the clerk’s office into the village’s bank accounts. Between at least 2004 and May 2013, Dobrowski allegedly took cash the village received as payment for fees and fines from the public. She then used most of the cash to gamble at casinos in Indiana and elsewhere either by taking cash to casinos or by depositing the money into her personal bank account and then withdrawing it from automated teller machines at casinos. She falsely represented the village’s finances to auditors and covered up her fraud scheme by causing false entries in village books, according to the charges. As part of the fraud scheme, Dobrowski allegedly took cash from both the village cash register and the collection of money received as tow bonds. She recorded false amounts of tow bond money that had been received to make it appear that the village collected less cash than it had actually received, and sometimes she used tow bond money to balance the cash register, the charges allege. To conceal her misappropriation of cash from the village cash register, Dobrowski waited a week to deposit cash into the village’s bank accounts instead of making daily deposits. By delaying deposits, Dobrowski could use funds received by the village in the later week to make up for funds she had taken during the prior week, making the deposit appear to match the revenues despite having taken cash from the register, the information alleges. Dobrowski allegedly further concealed the scheme by failing to record checks received from the public as payment for village fees and services. She would place the unrecorded checks into the register to compensate for an equal amount of cash she had taken, making the register appear balanced. She provided false information to the village’s outside audit firm regarding the village’s revenues and regularly disposed of the cash register tape to conceal that the village’s revenues often did not match the deposits into village bank accounts. Dobrowski was also charged with filing a false federal income tax return for 2012, when she reported total income of $309,181, knowing that her total income was substantially greater than that because she failed to report the cash she misappropriated from the village in 2012 as income. Wire fraud carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine or an alternate fine totaling twice the gross loss or gain, whichever is greater. Filing a false federal income tax return carries a maximum penalty of three years in prison, a $250,000 fine, and mandatory costs of prosecution. Restitution is mandatory and defendants convicted of tax offenses remain liable for back taxes, interest, and a civil penalty of up to 75 percent of the amount owed. The indictment was announced by Zachary T. Fardon, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois; Robert J. Holley, Special Agent in Charge of the Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and James C. Lee, Special Agent in Charge of the Chicago Office of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation Division. The government is being represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Block. The public is reminded that an information contains only charges and is not evidence of guilt. The defendant is presumed innocent and is entitled to a fair trial at which the government has the burden of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption A former Detroit Public Schools (DPS) teacher was sentenced to three years in prison today for her conviction for defrauding DPS, U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade announced today. McQuade was joined in the announcement by Paul M. Abbate, Special Agent in Charge of the Detroit Division of the Federal Bureau of investigation, and Carolyn Weber, Acting Special Agent in Charge, Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation. U.S. District Judge Julian Abele Cook imposed sentence on Domonique Campbell, 39. A jury found Campbell guilty of program fraud conspiracy, money laundering conspiracy, and tax charges, following a five-week trial in August 2013. Campbell’s mother, Sandra Campbell, 60, a former DPS contract accountant and school board candidate was sentenced in December 2013 to 70 months in federal prison for her role in the scheme. The evidence presented at trial established that between 2004 and 2008, the defendants obtained more than $530,000 from DPS through a fraudulent scheme in which orders were placed with the Campbells’ sham company for books and educational materials that were never provided to the schools. Sandra Campbell and Domonique Campbell conspired to launder the fraud proceeds and to defraud the Internal Revenue Service by failing to report on their income tax returns the money they fraudulently obtained. McQuade said, “Anyone who considers defrauding our schools should take note that we are scrutinizing records and conduct and will prosecute those who steal funds intended to educate our children.” FBI Special Agent in Charge Abbate stated, “In this case, the defendants’ criminal actions amounted to stealing the opportunity for a quality education from our children. Such conduct cannot and will not be tolerated. The FBI Detroit Field Office, together with our local, state, and federal partners will continue to battle public corruption and hold those responsible accountable for their actions.” IRS Acting Special Agent in Charge Weber stated, “Those who profit at the expense of our children and steal from our community will be held accountable for their greedy actions”. The case was investigated by special agents of the FBI, IRS, and Department of Education-Office of Inspector General, with the assistance of Detroit Public Schools-Office of Inspector General. The case was investigated and prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys J. Michael Buckley and Bruce Judge of the Public Corruption Unit.
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, announced that former Hartford Police Detective Tishay Johnson, 40, of Windsor, waived his right to indictment and pleaded guilty today before U.S. Magistrate Judge Donna F. Martinez in Hartford to one count of theft from a local government receiving federal funds. According to court documents and statements made in court, Hartford residents seeking a permit to carry a concealed weapon are required to submit an application to the city of Hartford through the Hartford Police Department. The application includes a municipal application processing fee of $70 to Hartford and a background check fee of $66.50 to the State of Connecticut. Johnson administered the Hartford Police Department’s concealed weapons permit program and was responsible for processing citizens’ applications, collecting the application fees, and depositing the fees into the appropriate city or state accounts. Between October 2009 and January 2014, Johnson embezzled $29,426.75 that had been paid in connection with permit applications by altering checks and money orders to make it appear that the checks and money orders were payable to him. He also forged signatures on checks to make it appear that the intended payee had endorsed the check over to him. Johnson then deposited the funds into a personal checking account. Johnson is scheduled to be sentenced by U.S. District Judge Robert N. Chatigny on August 4, 2014, at which time he faces a maximum term of a maximum term of imprisonment of 10 years and a fine of up to $250,000. Johnson also has agreed to make restitution of $17,442.50 to the city of Hartford and $11,984.25 to the state of Connecticut. He is released on a $150,000 bond pending sentencing. Johnson resigned from the Hartford Police Department in January 2014. This matter is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Hartford Police Department, and it is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher M. Mattei.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida; George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office; and Jose A. Gonzalez, Special Agent in Charge, Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI), announce the filing of a one-count information charging Garfield Perry, 66, of North Miami Beach, with conspiring to accept bribes in connection with programs receiving federal funds and to commit extortion, all in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371. Perry is scheduled to appear in federal court on Friday, May 9, 2014, at 2:00 p.m. before U.S. Magistrate Judge Alicia Otazo-Reyes. According to the information, from at least 2002 through 2009, Perry was the Roadway Lighting Coordinator for the Department of Public Works in Miami-Dade County. In this capacity, Perry was responsible for, among other things, overseeing the maintenance of more than 22,000 street lights in the county’s roadway system. The information charges that from 2006 through October 2009, Perry accepted bribe payments from a manufacturer’s representative totaling approximately $150,000. Perry regularly directed the to make the bribe payments by paying down debts owed by Perry, including payments on two home mortgages, one car loan, two home insurance policies, two car insurance policies, and eight credit cards. Perry accepted as bribe payments from the manufacturer’s representative, cruise vacations, domestic and international airline tickets, payments for hotels, and theatre tickets. Perry regularly directed the manufacturer’s representative to make bribe payments by issuing checks payable to third parties and, after the checks were cashed, determined the manner in which the proceeds were to be split. Perry falsely certified to Miami-Dade County that he was not engaged in any outside employment and did not receive any gratuities. In return for the bribe payments, Perry helped to ensure that lighting products used in Public Works’ projects were represented by the manufacturer’s representative. If convicted, Perry faces a possible maximum statutory sentence of up to five years in prison. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI and IRS-CI. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeffrey N. Kaplan. An information is only an accusation, and a defendant is presumed innocent until proven guilty. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls.
corruption A woman, formerly the city clerk for Masonville, Iowa, who defrauded the city of more than $30,000 pled guilty today in federal court in Cedar Rapids. Christine Anne King, 42, from Strawberry Point, Iowa, was convicted of one count of mail fraud. In a plea agreement, King admitted that, from July 2002 through October 2011, while working as the city clerk for the city of Masonville, she routinely issued herself fraudulent payroll and expense reimbursement checks. King further admitted she included fraudulently inflated bank account balances for the city’s bank accounts on reports King provided to the city council and to the auditor for the state of Iowa in order to prevent anyone from discovering her fraud. Sentencing before United States District Court Chief Judge Linda R. Reade will be set after a presentence report is prepared. King remains free on conditions of release previously set pending sentencing. King faces a possible maximum sentence of 20 years’ imprisonment, a $250,000 fine, $100 in special assessments, and three years of supervised release following any imprisonment. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Anthony Morfitt and was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, and George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office, announce the filing of a two-count information charging Jose Emmanuel Torres, 37, of Cooper City, in count one, with federal bribery, in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§201(b)(2)(A) and (B); and, in count two, with exceeding authorized access to a government computer, in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§1030(a)(2)(B) and (c)(2)(B)(i) and (ii) and 18 U.S.C. §2. Jose Emmanuel Torres, who was previously arrested in February 3, 2014, was arraigned today before U.S. Magistrate Judge Alicia Valle in Fort Lauderdale. The criminal information has been assigned to U.S. District Judge Robin S. Rosenbaum. According to the information, from approximately January 2012 through December 13, 2013, Torres was assigned to the Department of Defense, Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA). As part of his official duties with the DIA, Torres worked with agents from Department of Homeland Security, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) collecting intelligence regarding persons who were allegedly involved in terrorism and drug trafficking. During the course of his duties with DIA, Torres interviewed a cooperating individual (CI) who was attempting to gain legal residence status in the United States and had provided Torres and other agents of the United States with information regarding persons involved in drug trafficking and terrorism. Torres told the CI that he had used his influence to have the CI arrested on immigration charges. In or about September 2013, Torres asked the CI for $10,000. The CI understood that, if he did not give Torres the money, Torres could use his influence to have the CI arrested again. Torres continued to ask for the $10,000 and promised that the CI would not go back to jail even if he [Torres] had to put his “neck on the line.” In November 2013 the CI paid Torres $6,000 in order for Torres to use his influence to assist the CI with the CI’s immigration proceedings. Torres also caused another person to access a government computer and to obtain information from the NADDIS database operated by the DEA in order to commit a theft of $500,000 of drug proceeds. If convicted, Torres faces a statutory maximum term of 20 years in prison and a fine of the greater of $250,000 or three times the money received. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI. Mr. Ferrer would also like to thank the Drug Enforcement Administration and the United States Secret Service for their assistance. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeffrey N. Kaplan. An information is only an accusation and a defendant is presumed innocent until proven guilty.
corruption JACKSON, MS—Calvin Louis Smith, 56, a former Canton City alderman, was found guilty of bribery following a three-day trial in U.S. District Court, announced U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis and FBI Special Agent in Charge Daniel McMullen. Smith was indicted for bribery in connection with a transaction involving the City of Canton, Mississippi. He will be sentenced on July 17, 2014 at 9:30 a.m. by U.S. District Judge Henry T. Wingate. Smith faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000.00 fine. “For the public to have confidence in their government, they must be certain that their elected officials will use their position for public good instead of personal gain,” said U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis. “Today’s verdict is a reminder that public officials will be held accountable when they violate the trust placed in them by the public.” FBI Special Agent in Charge McMullen stated: “Public service is about serving one’s community. It is not meant to be self-serving. Yet, this public servant chose to use his position to serve himself. Crimes of this nature do not affect just one person or one community. Public corruption affects everyone by undermining their trust.” This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Jerry Rushing.
corruption BALTIMORE, MD—Former U.S. Postal Service Station Manager Richard Lewis Wright, III, age 47, of Baltimore, pleaded guilty today to bribery in connection with a scheme to obtain U.S. Postal Service contracts in exchange for bribe payments. On August 29, 2014, U.S. District Judge Ellen L. Hollander sentenced former USPS Station Manager Kimberly A. Parnell, age 43 and contractor Shane Anderson, age 37, both of Baltimore, to 20 months and 15 months in prison, respectively, each followed by three years of supervised release, for bribery in the same scheme. The plea and sentences were announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Paul Bowman of the U.S. Postal Service Office of Inspector General; and Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. According to their plea agreements, Wright was the USPS Station Manager of the Waverly Station in Baltimore, Maryland, and Parnell was the USPS Station Manager of the Pikesville Station in Pikesville, Maryland. As part of their official duties as a USPS Station Manager, Wright and Parnell had the authority to contract for landscaping, snow removal, and certain cleaning services at the Post Offices they managed, and to submit invoices for those services to USPS for payment. Beginning in 2007 for Wright and 2010 for Parnell, and continuing until July 2013, Wright and Parnell admitted that they created, approved and submitted false and inflated invoices for maintenance work allegedly performed at their Post Offices and then split the proceeds with the providers of the services, including Shane Anderson and others. According to their plea agreements, Wright and Parnell initially accepted bribes from co-conspirator G.M., who owned a landscaping company. In July 2013, after becoming increasingly frustrated with G.M’s slow payment of bribes to Wright and Parnell, Parnell recruited Shane Anderson, who operated a landscaping company in Baltimore, called Youthful Minds Lawn Care and who she believed would make bribe payments in exchange for USPS contracts, to participate in the scheme. Thereafter, Wright, Parnell and Anderson agreed that Wright and Parnell would submit false and inflated invoices from Youthful Minds Lawn Care for landscaping services in exchange for a percentage of the proceeds paid to Youthful Minds by the USPS. Beginning in August 2010, Wright also began soliciting and receiving bribes from Ladeena Sketers-Anderson, who operated Keep U Clean cleaning service. Sketers-Anderson received USPS payments, approved by Wright for services allegedly provided at Wright’s Post Office, and deposited the checks into her account. Sketers-Anderson then issued checks to a cleaning company owned by Wright, which Wright endorsed and cashed. In all, Wright submitted a total of $591,791 worth of invoices in exchange for bribe payments and Parnell submitted a total of $50,470 worth of invoices in exchange for bribe payments. Richard Wright faces a maximum penalty of 15 years in prison. As part of his plea agreement, Wright will be required to pay restitution in the full amount of the loss, which will be determined by the Court. U.S. District Judge Ellen L. Hollander has scheduled Wright’s sentencing for February 6, 2015, at 10:00 a.m. Ladena D. Sketers-Anderson, age 48, of Randallstown, Maryland, previously pleaded guilty to her role in the scheme and is scheduled to be sentenced on September 12, 2014, at 11:00 a.m. The National Procurement Fraud Task Force was formed in October 2006 to promote the early detection, identification, prevention and prosecution of procurement fraud associated with the increase in government contracting activity for national security and other government programs. The Procurement Fraud Task Force includes the United States Attorneys’ Offices, the FBI, the U.S. Inspectors General community and a number of other federal law enforcement agencies. This case, as well as other cases brought by members of the Task Force, demonstrates the Department of Justice’s commitment to helping ensure the integrity of the government procurement process. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the USPS-Office of Inspector General and FBI for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant United States Attorney Leo J. Wise, who is prosecuting the case.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida; Jose A. Gonzalez, Special Agent in Charge, Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI); and George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office, announce that Douglas L. Bates, 55, of Parkland, was sentenced by U.S. District Donald M. Middlebrooks to 60 months in prison, two years of supervised release, and a $20,000 fine. Bates previously pled guilty to a superseding information charging him with conspiracy to commit wire fraud, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371. The acts set forth in the charging document were all in furtherance of a Ponzi scheme involving the sale of purported confidential settlement agreements in sexual harassment and/or whistle blower cases which were purportedly handled by attorneys at the former Ft. Lauderdale law firm of Rothstein, Rosenfeldt and Adler, P.A. (RRA). According to the factual stipulation filed in support of the guilty plea, while Bates was a partner in the Law Offices of Koppel and Bates located at 817 South University Drive, Suite 100, Plantation, Florida, he assisted Scott W. Rothstein in defrauding certain clients of RRA by drafting false and fraudulent opinion letters claiming to represent an investment group which had a business plan to invest in the confidential settlements which formed the basis for the Ponzi scheme when, in fact, he did not, and claiming that he represented a plaintiff who had entered into one of the confidential settlement agreements when, in fact, he did not. The superseding information further alleges that Bates assisted Rothstein by arranging to have representatives of an investment group falsely informed that numerous legal cases were referred by Koppel & Bates to RRA when, in fact, they were not. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of IRS-CI and FBI. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Lawrence D. LaVecchio, Paul F. Schwartz, Jeffrey N. Kaplan and Evelyn B. Sheehan.
corruption BALTIMORE, MD—A federal grand jury has indicted Richard Louis Wright III, age 46, Kimberly A. Parnell, age 43, and Shane Anderson, age 37, all of Baltimore; and Ladena D. Sketers-Anderson, age 47, of Randallstown, Maryland, on charges related to a bribery conspiracy to obtain contracts with the U.S. Postal Service. The indictment was returned on April 30, 2014. The indictment was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein, Special Agent in Charge Paul Bowman of the U.S. Postal Service Office of Inspector General, and Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. “The indictment alleges that two post office station managers accepted bribes in return for contracts for landscaping, snow removal, and cleaning services,” said U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein. “Officials who exercise governmental authority are obligated to use it for the public good and not to advance their own financial interests.” Beginning in January 2007, Wright was the United States Postal Service (USPS) Station Manager of the Waverly Station in Baltimore, and beginning in July 2010, Parnell was the USPS Station Manager of the Pikesville Station in Pikesville, Maryland. As part of their official duties as USPS Station Managers, Wright and Parnell had the authority to contract for landscaping, snow removal, and certain cleaning services at the post offices they managed, and to submit invoices for those services to USPS for payment. According to the indictment, Wright and Parnell knew one another professionally and personally and consulted with one another on the operations of their respective stations, including referring contractors to one another. The 29-count indictment alleges that beginning in October 2007 and continuing until approximately October 2013, Wright and Parnell engaged in a scheme to commit bribery, wire fraud, and mail fraud by creating, approving, and submitting false and inflated invoices for maintenance work allegedly performed at their respective post offices by Anderson, Sketers, and others, and then splitting the proceeds with the alleged providers of the services. According to the indictment, in the spring of 2013, when one of their co-conspirators failed to make timely bribe payments to Wright and Parnell, Parnell proposed that they replace the co-conspirator with Shane Anderson, who operated a landscaping company in Baltimore called Youthful Minds Lawn Care, and whom they believed would make bribe payments to them in exchange for USPS contracts. Thereafter, Parnell, Wright, and Anderson agreed that Parnell and Wright would submit false and inflated invoices from Youthful Minds Lawn Care for landscaping services in exchange for a percentage of the proceeds paid to Youthful Minds by the USPS. Ladena Delore Sketers-Anderson (aka Ladena Sketers) operated a cleaning company called Keep U Clean Janitorial Services, LLC in Randallstown, Maryland. Wright and Sketers had been business partners in a janitorial services company before Sketers went into business as Keep U Clean. Wright used Sketers’ company for cleaning services at the Waverly Station and recommended Keep U Clean to Parnell at the Pikesville Station. The indictment alleges that Wright submitted false and inflated invoices from Keep U Clean in exchange for Sketers paying him a percentage of the funds she received from the USPS. Later, Wright began submitting Keep U Clean invoices to the USPS for cleaning work done by employees at his direction at the Waverly Station, even though he had been directly instructed not to perform contract work at the station he managed. According to the indictment, Wright also proposed to Parnell that Keep U Clean employees under his direction perform cleaning services at the Pikesville Station in exchange for a bribe payment to Parnell and Parnell agreed to that arrangement. Finally, the indictment seeks forfeiture of any proceeds obtained directly or indirectly, as the result of the scheme, including: $591,791 for Wright; $50,470 for Parnell; $30,455 for Anderson; and $109,976 for Sketers-Anderson. The defendants face a maximum sentence of five years in prison for the conspiracy and 15 years in prison for each count of bribery. No court appearances have been scheduled for the defendants. An indictment is not a finding of guilt. An individual charged by indictment is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty at some later criminal proceedings. The National Procurement Fraud Task Force was formed in October 2006 to promote the early detection, identification, prevention and prosecution of procurement fraud associated with the increase in government contracting activity for national security and other government programs. The Procurement Fraud Task Force includes the United States Attorneys’ Offices, the FBI, the U.S. Inspectors General community, and a number of other federal law enforcement agencies. This case, as well as other cases brought by members of the task force, demonstrates the Department of Justice’s commitment to helping ensure the integrity of the government procurement process. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the USPS-Office of Inspector General and FBI for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant United States Attorney Leo J. Wise, who is prosecuting the case.
corruption NEWARK, NJ—A former attendance liaison officer for the Elizabeth (New Jersey) Board of Education (EBOE) today admitted obtaining by fraud more than $5,000 by working a second job during hours when he was supposed to be tracking down truant students, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Scott J. Farley, 45, of Cranford, New Jersey, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Kevin McNulty to an information charging him embezzling and converting to his own use more than $5,000 of money in the control and custody of the EBOE. According to documents filed in this case and statements made in court: Farley worked for the EBOE at an annual salary of $40,499 and $42,825 for school years 2009-2010 and 2010-2011, respectively. As an attendance liaison officer, he was expected to perform his duties during the school day, which lasted from approximately 8:15 a.m. to 3:00 p.m., by conducting home visits relating to excessive school absences by students. During this time, Farley worked in the shipping and receiving department of a private corporation based in Mountainside, New Jersey. Time sheets from the corporation revealed Farley worked there during many hours when he was supposed to be working as a truant officer. Farley admitted working at the corporation during school hours on at least 100 days for both school years 2009-2010 and 2010-2011. He also admitted that during school year 2009-2010, he worked full days on approximately seven days at the corporation’s Tampa facility when the Elizabeth schools were in session and he was being paid to perform his work as a truant officer. In total, over the course of the two school years, Farley logged more than 250 hours at the corporation’s facilities during hours when he was being paid to perform duties on behalf of the EBOE. The charge to which Farley pleaded guilty carries a maximum potential penalty of 10 years in prison and a $125,000 fine. As part of his plea agreement, Farley agreed to pay $22,065 in restitution to the Elizabeth Board of Education, reflecting the hours for which he was being paid to perform his duties as an attendance liaison officer but was actually working for the corporation. Sentencing is scheduled for August 6, 2014. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford, and investigators with the Union County Prosecutor’s Office, under the direction of Acting Prosecutor Grace Park, with the investigation leading to today’s guilty plea. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Mark J. McCarren of the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Newark and Assistant Prosecutor Robert Vanderstreet with the Union County Prosecutor’s Office. Defense counsel: Timothy R. Smith and Wolodymyr Tyshchenko Esqs., Fairfield, N.J.
corruption ALBUQUERQUE—A corrections officer at the Otero County Prison Facility (OCFP) in Chaparral, New Mexico has been charged with violating the federal narcotics laws, Acting U.S. Attorney Damon P. Martinez, Special Agent in Charge Carol K.O. Lee of the Albuquerque Division of the FBI, and Department Secretary Gregg Marcantel of the New Mexico Corrections Department announced. The correction officer, Luis Delgadillo, 37, of El Paso, Texas, is one of six individuals charged in a criminal complaint with conspiracy to violate the federal narcotics laws by smuggling controlled substances into the OCPF. The criminal complaint also charges Nancy Salas, 35, of Alamogordo, New Mexico; Ana Lopez, 24, of Albuquerque, New Mexico; and three OCPF inmates—Eric Lovato, 30, of Boles Acres, New Mexico, and Armando Lopez, 27, and Gary Borja, 26, both of Albuquerque—with participating in the conspiracy. Delgadillo and Ana Lopez were arrested by the FBI on April 26, 2014. During court proceedings this morning, a U.S. Magistrate Judge in Las Cruces ordered Delgadillo detained pending trial while Ana Lopez was released on conditions of release and under pretrial supervision. Salas, who was arrested on April 28, 2014, made her initial appearance in federal court this morning and remains in custody pending a detention hearing which has yet to be scheduled. The three inmates, who remain in state custody, will be transferred to federal custody to face the charges in the criminal complaint. According to the criminal complaint, the FBI initiated its investigation into the case in January 2014, after receiving information from the New Mexico Corrections Department allegedly showing that Delgadillo was smuggling heroin and methamphetamine into the OCPF. The investigation, which included a review of recorded inmate telephone calls and OCPF surveillance video, physical surveillance and the results of inmate drug testing, identified the six defendants as members of a conspiracy that allegedly smuggled narcotics into the OCPF between January 2014 and April 2014. The criminal complaint generally alleges that Ana Lopez and Salas purchased narcotics at the behest of the inmate defendants and transferred the narcotics to Delgadillo, who was paid to smuggle the narcotics to the inmate defendants. In late January and early February 2014, Ana Lopez, Armando Lopez, Salas, and Lovato allegedly participated in a series of telephone calls during which they arranged for Salas to purchase narcotics that would be smuggled into the OCPF by Delgadillo. The criminal complaint further alleges that in February and March 2014, Salas, Borja, and Lovato participated in a series of telephone calls during which they arranged for Salas to purchase narcotics and to transfer the narcotics to Delgadillo so that he could smuggle the narcotics into the OCPF. On March 14, 2014, the FBI conducted surveillance of a meeting between Salas and Delgadillo. On March 15, 2014, OCPF video surveillance cameras allegedly recorded an interaction during which Delgadillo handed a package to Borja which Borja took to his bunk area where he was joined by Armando Lopez. During a telephone call later that day, Armando Lopez allegedly told Ana Lopez that Delgadillo had smuggled the narcotics into the OCPF. On March 18, 2014, the OCFP performed inmate drug tests which allegedly revealed that Borja, Armando Lopez, and another inmate tested positive for opiates. According to the criminal complaint, in April 2014, Borja participated in in a series of telephone calls with Ana Lopez during which they made plans for Ana Lopez to purchase narcotics and to transfer the narcotics to Delgadillo. On April 26, 2014, the FBI conducted surveillance of a meeting between Delgadillo and Ana Lopez. Shortly thereafter, the FBI arrested Delgadillo and Ana Lopez. During a search of Delgadillo’s vehicle, the FBI allegedly found a box containing 38.9 grams of a substance that tested positive for methamphetamine, 12.5 grams of a substance that appeared to be heroin, and 10 Suboxone pills. If convicted of the offense charged in the criminal complaint, each of the six defendants faces a prison sentence of not less than five years and not more than 40 years. Charges in criminal complaints are merely accusations and criminal defendants are presumed innocent unless convicted in a court of law. This case was investigated by the Las Cruces office of the FBI and the New Mexico Corrections Department and is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Mark A. Saltman of the U.S. Attorney’s Las Cruces Branch Office.
corruption MEMPHIS, TN—Attorney Sharon Anderson, 51, of Oakland, Tennessee, was sentenced to 20 months in federal prison yesterday after pleading guilty in September 2013 to theft from her clients’ trust accounts, announced U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Tennessee, Edward L. Stanton III. From August 2010 to September 2011, Anderson stole nearly $200,000 from two clients, soliciting them to make what they believed were four separate short-term “hard money” loans for investors purchasing properties and awaiting conventional financing from banks. Anderson provided the victims with fraudulent documents, including settlement statements, notes, and deeds of trust, creating the impression that the victims had issued valid loans for true sales of properties by actual buyers, and that the victims had secured interests in the properties. In one instance, Anderson used the identity of another client as the supposed “buyer” for these nonexistent loans and victimized this additional client by apparently forging the client’s name on the loan documents. In reality, Anderson herself already owned each of the properties for which the victims believed they had made loans. There were no actual loans, no sales, and no buyers. Instead, Anderson used the victims’ money to purchase a $499,500 condominium at the Caribe Resort in Orange Beach, Alabama, and, apparently, a $725,000 waterfront home in Orange Beach as well as a second condominium at the Caribe Resort. Over the course of the following three years, Anderson engaged in an ongoing series of communications lying to the victims to lead them to believe that the “buyers” to whom they issued loans were finally going to obtain conventional financing and pay the victims. Anderson told the victims at various times that refinances were “in process,” that she had learned that “a couple of credit glitches” were “being addressed,” and that the property “was sold and is being refinanced.” All of these statements were lies because there were no sales, no buyers, and no loans to be refinanced. Anderson made sporadic interest payments to the victims during this time. As the victims followed up to obtain the payments, Anderson responded with such statements as “Take a breath!!” and made explanations for late payments or nonpayments such as, “I’m out of town and recovering from the flu,” “I didn’t listen to my voicemail at the office on Friday,” “Our computers have been on the blink all morning,” “I have been tied up all day in closings,” and “[M]y husband...is 200 miles out at sea.” Each of the victims independently caught on to Anderson’s fraud when they checked the website for the register of deeds and realized they had no secured interests in the properties for which they had made loans. After the first victim threatened litigation and a report to the board of professional responsibility, Anderson paid the victim off by stealing additional money from the client trust account for the payoff. After the second victim caught Anderson, they reached an agreement that Anderson would give the victim a second mortgage on her residence at Anderson Farms in Fayette County and that Anderson would sell assets to pay off the loans. Even after the agreement, Anderson continued lying to the victim, concealing her $435,000 sale of one of the Caribe Resort condominiums in July 2013. Finally, after Anderson gave the victim a $26,744 check in November 2013 that bounced, Anderson agreed to satisfy the debt to avoid reporting of the bounced check. The victim accepted a reduced settlement from Anderson to avoid being left at a total loss. At the sentencing hearing, Anderson asked United States District Court Judge Samuel H. Mays to consider, among other things, her role in her family, her business success, and her role in the Fayette County community, hosting and paying for events such as a Wounded Warriors event at Anderson Farms. The government noted that Anderson’s thefts were not based on any emergency need, but rather for greed. Anderson owns numerous properties, and used the money she stole to buy more. In addition, her failure to repay the victims was not apparently the result of an inability to make repayment but simply because the defendant did not want to. She had the means to host charitable events and owned multiple properties and a yacht. One victim made a statement at the hearing reflecting the stress Anderson imposed on her. Fifty-thousand dollars of the money Anderson stole from the victim came from the victim’s mother, who had gone into a nursing home while the victim was seeking repayment. Even after the victim told Anderson that $50,000 of the money was her mother’s, and that her mother had entered a nursing home, Anderson did not repay the loss until more than 15 months later and after the victim threatened to report the bounced check. The victim stated she agreed to a partial repayment because she did not want to risk getting no payment at all. The victim added that she did not believe Anderson ever intended to repay her and that if Anderson wanted to do the right thing, she would have paid the loan in full. The victim expressed the hope that Anderson never be allowed to use her position to harm anyone else in the future. Anderson’s attorney stated at the sentencing hearing that Anderson has agreed with the Tennessee Board of Professional Responsibility to be disbarred from the practice of law. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant U.S. Attorney John Fabian represented the government.
corruption WASHINGTON—Lenard Fleming, 33, a corrections officer with the Corrections Corporation of America (CCA), has been arrested and charged with bribery following an undercover FBI investigation in which he allegedly accepted money for smuggling contraband into the District of Columbia’s Correctional Treatment Facility. The charge was announced by U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen Jr.; Valerie Parlave, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office; and Thomas N. Faust, Director of the District of Columbia Department of Corrections. Fleming was arrested today by the FBI and appeared this afternoon in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. He pled not guilty and was released on personal recognizance pending a hearing on May 14, 2014. Fleming had worked for CCA as a corrections officer at the Correctional Treatment Facility. CCA, a private company, has a contract to provide services to the D.C. Jail. The arrest came nine days after another CCA corrections officer, Darren Malry, 51, was apprehended and charged with bribery in a related investigation. Malry also worked for CCA at the Correctional Treatment Facility. He has pled not guilty to the charge. According to the charging documents that were filed today, on January 5, 2014, Fleming met with an undercover FBI agent in the parking lot of a shopping center in Capitol Heights, Maryland. The undercover agent gave Fleming a cellphone and cigarettes for Fleming to deliver to an inmate housed at the Correctional Treatment Facility. The undercover agent also provided Fleming with $750 in cash at that meeting, which was given in exchange for Fleming smuggling the contraband into the facility and delivering it to the inmate. The FBI recovered the contraband from the inmate shortly after Fleming gave the items to the inmate. Fleming was terminated by CCA in February 2014 following a complaint that he was smuggling contraband into the facility for another inmate. A criminal complaint is merely a formal charge that a defendant has committed a violation of criminal laws. Every defendant is presumed innocent until, and unless, proven guilty. The case is being investigated by the FBI’s Washington Field Office with assistance from the District of Columbia Department of Corrections Office of Investigative Services. It is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard DiZinno, of the Fraud and Public Corruption Section of the U.S. Attorney’s Office, with assistance from Assistant U.S. Attorneys Catherine K. Connelly and Allessandra Stewart, of the Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida; George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office; David W. Bourne, Special Agent in Charge, Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Office of Criminal Investigations, Miami Field Office; and Brian Kummerlen, Interim Chief, West Palm Beach Police Department, announce that Dewitt McDonald, 45, of Wellington, pled guilty to a one-count information charging him with knowingly carrying a firearm during and in relation to a drug trafficking crime, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 924(c)(1)(A). Sentencing is scheduled for July 18, 2014 at 9:00 a.m. in Fort Lauderdale before U.S. District Judge James I. Cohn. According to the stipulated statement of facts filed with the court, the defendant was a police officer with the West Palm Beach Police Department. While employed as a police officer, the defendant operated two businesses: Prime Performance Wellness Centers, Inc., located in Lake Worth, and Prime Health and Rejuvenation Clinic, located in Wellington, through which he unlawfully distributed anabolic steroids and other prescription drugs. The stipulated statement of facts further states that on March 5, 2013, while on duty and carrying his Smith & Wesson MP40 pistol, the defendant made a delivery of these drugs to another officer of the West Palm Beach Police Department. The defendant faces a minimum sentence of five years in prison and a maximum statutory sentence of up to life in prison. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI and FDA Office of Criminal Investigations. Mr. Ferrer also thanked the West Palm Beach Police Department for their cooperation and assistance in this matter. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Jeffrey N. Kaplan, Paul F. Schwartz, and Lawrence D. LaVecchio.
corruption MCALLEN, TX—Five defendants, all former law enforcement officers, have been ordered to federal prison for their roles in a drug trafficking conspiracy, announced United States Attorney Kenneth Magidson. Jorge Garza, 60, of Edinburg, was convicted in August 2013 after six days of trial, while Fernando Guerra Jr., 24, Claudio Mata, 35, and James Phil Flores, 47, all of Edinburg; and Gerardo Mendoza-Duran, 31, of Pharr, all previously pleaded guilty in relation to the case. Today, U.S. District Judge Randy Crane handed Mata a total sentence of 140 months in federal prison. Garza received a sentence of 121 months, while Flores was sentenced to a 120-month term of imprisonment. Mendoza-Duran and Flores both received 96-month terms. “The prosecution of corrupt law enforcement officers will always be a priority of this office in order to ensure the community’s faith in our judicial system,” said Magidson. “The sentencings today represent part of that continuing effort.” Fernando Guerra Sr., 48, Jonathan Trevino, 29, Eric Alcantar, 29, Alexis Espinoza, 30, all of McAllen; Salvador Arguello, 34, of Edinburg; and Fabian Rodriguez, 29, of Edcouch, have all also pleaded guilty in the case and are expected to be sentenced tomorrow. Arguello, Mata, Alcantar, and Rodriguez were former members of the Hidalgo County Sheriff’s Office (HCSO) and the now infamous and defunct Panama Unit. Espinoza was a former Mission Police Officer, as was Trevino who also served on the Panama Unit. Mendoza-Duran, Flores and Garza were all members of the HCSO, but not part of the Panama Unit itself. All were convicted of using their positions as law enforcement officers to traffic narcotics. “Today’s sentencing of law enforcement officials involved in crimes they are sworn to investigate serves as a sobering warning about the consequences of violating the public’s trust,” said Special Agent in Charge Janice Ayala of Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) in San Antonio. “While HSI is saddened by the circumstances that brought this sentencing to bare, HSI feels justice has been served.” The investigation revealed that from 2010 through 2012, the defendants used their positions to steal narcotics and currency from local drug traffickers. The stolen narcotics were then re-distributed to Guerra Sr. In addition, Trevino, Espinoza, and Mendoza-Duran attempted to assist narcotics traffickers by escorting loads of cocaine which travelled through Hidalgo County in exchange for thousands of dollars. The Guerras, Flores, and Garza were also convicted for their roles in the distribution of stolen narcotics. Flores and Garza assisted Guerra Sr. and Jr. by performing false traffic stops utilizing HCSO vehicles in order to assist the Guerras with the theft of the narcotics. The investigation leading to the charges was conducted by HSI, Drug Enforcement Administration, Immigration and Customs Enforcement-Office of Professional Responsibility, FBI, and the Texas Department of Public Safety. Assistant United States Attorneys James Sturgis and Anibal Alaniz prosecuted the case. ***4/30/14 Update*** The remaining defendants were sentenced today as follows: Jonathan Trevino – 204 months Eric Alcantar – 120 months Alexis Espinoza – 168 months Salvador Arguello – 144 months Fabian Rodriguez – 156 months Fernando Guerra, Sr. – 180 months
corruption JACKSON, MS—Bruce Barlow, 50, former chief of police for the Mendenhall Police Department in Mendenhall, Mississippi, was sentenced to five years in federal prison followed by three years of supervised release for conspiracy to commit extortion, bribery, and theft during this tenure as Mendenhall police chief, announced U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis and FBI Special Agent in Charge Daniel McMullen. The amount of restitution to be paid by Barlow will be determined at a restitution hearing scheduled for July 10, 2014. From January 2010 through July 2010, Bruce Barlow instructed Mendenhall police officers to pull over motorists and find ways to gain access into and search their vehicles. He also instructed his officers to seize cash at every arrest, including arrests for misdemeanor charges. When Barlow was interviewed by FBI agents on March 7, 2013, he admitted to stealing money and property and allowing others to take property seized by the Mendenhall Police Department from the victims after an arrest or detention. As part of his plea agreement, Barlow agreed to make restitution to the victims of the crime and forfeit any money or property related to the crime. Barlow also agreed to never be employed by any governmental entity in the future. “The job of a police chief is to serve and protect the public,” said U.S. Attorney Davis. “Mr. Barlow made the choice to go from upholding the law to breaking it. This office will aggressively pursue allegations of public corruption wherever they lead, and this case should serve as a stern and sobering reminder that no one is above the law.” This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Simpson County Sheriff’s Office, and the Mississippi State Auditor’s Office. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Mike Hurst and Mary Helen Wall prosecuted the case.
corruption A 20-count indictment was unsealed this morning in federal court in Brooklyn charging Michael Grimm with five counts of mail fraud, five counts of wire fraud, three counts of aiding and assisting in the preparation of false federal tax returns, one count of conspiring to defraud the United States, one count of impeding the Internal Revenue Service, one count of health care fraud, one count of engaging in a pattern or practice of hiring and continuing to employ unauthorized aliens, two counts of perjury, and one count of obstructing an official proceeding. Since 2011, Grimm has served as a member of the United States House of Representatives, representing New York’s 11th Congressional District, which includes the borough of Staten Island and parts of the borough of Brooklyn, in New York City. Grimm will be arraigned later today before United States Magistrate Judge James Orenstein at the U.S. Courthouse at 225 Cadman Plaza East in Brooklyn, New York. The indictment was announced by Loretta E. Lynch, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York; George Venizelos, Assistant Director in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation, New York Field Office (FBI); and Richard Weber, Chief, Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI). “In 2007, Michael Grimm, former Marine, former FBI agent, accountant, and attorney, was poised for success as a small business owner. Instead, as alleged, Grimm made the choice to go from upholding the law to breaking it. In so doing, he turned his back on every oath he had ever taken. Even after his return to public service, when called to account for his actions and questioned under oath Grimm went for the cover up and lied about his role in his own business,” stated United States Attorney Lynch. “The obligation to deal honestly and testify truthfully is shared by everyone in our society. We will continue to work with our law enforcement partners to enforce our laws across the board.” “As a former FBI agent, Representative Grimm should understand the motto fidelity, bravery, and integrity. Yet he broke our credo at nearly every turn. In this 20-count indictment, Representative Grimm lived by a new motto: fraud, perjury, and obstruction. We demand the best from our political leaders. Yet today, we again find ourselves expecting and rightfully wanting more. And as citizens of this great nation we rightfully demand it,” stated FBI Assistant Director in Charge Venizelos. “While occupying a position of trust in the community, Mr. Grimm is alleged to have committed a multitude of criminal violations,” said Chief of IRS-Criminal Investigation Weber. “No matter your political position, how much power you have, how much money you make, or who you know, IRS-CI investigates all allegations of tax fraud. The American public expects and deserves the equitable enforcement of our tax laws.” Background As alleged in the indictment, Grimm was one of the owners and the managing member of Healthalicious, a fast food restaurant located in Manhattan. From 2007 through 2010, Grimm oversaw the day-to-day operations of the restaurant, which included the reporting and distribution of the restaurant’s payroll. Specifically, Grimm set the employees’ rates of pay, reported their pay-rates and hours worked to the companies that Healthalicious retained to manage its payroll and withhold taxes due and owing to the federal and New York State governments (the “payroll processing companies”), and distributed wages to employees. When Grimm was not present at the restaurant to perform these tasks himself, he delegated those responsibilities to managers under his supervision and control. Grimm is charged with engaging in schemes to fraudulently under-report the wages he paid his workers—many of whom did not have legal status in the United States—and fraudulently under-report the true amount of money the restaurant earned to both federal and New York State tax and insurance authorities. Specifically, Grimm paid a large portion of Healthalicious’ employees’ wages in cash and did not report those cash wages to federal and state authorities, thereby lowering the restaurant’s payroll tax costs. Grimm also under-reported the true amount of Healthalicious’ payroll to the New York State Insurance Fund (NYSIF), allowing him to receive lower monthly workers’ compensation premiums. In addition, Grimm substantially under-reported the amount of gross receipts Healthalicious earned to both the federal and New York State governments, thereby dramatically lowering the federal and state tax the restaurant owed and paid. In total, Grimm concealed more than $1 million in Healthalicious sales and wages, fraudulently depriving the federal and state governments of sales, income, and payroll taxes. Further, when Grimm was deposed by an attorney representing a former Healthalicious employee in 2013 as part of a federal lawsuit, Grimm lied under oath about his business practices, including falsely denying that he paid workers cash wages. The Scheme to Fraudulently Under-Report Healthalicious’ Payroll As alleged in the indictment, Grimm paid a significant portion of Healthalicious’ employees’ wages in cash. Many employees received approximately half their weekly pay in cash and the other half by check or through direct deposit into a bank account, while others received their entire weekly pay in cash. Grimm handed out cash payments to his employees on numerous occasions, and those cash payments were taken from the daily cash receipts of Healthalicious. Further, Grimm hired and continued to employ workers who did not have legal status and accordingly did not have valid authorization to work inside the United States. To execute his scheme, Grimm lied, or directed others to lie, to the payroll processing companies by concealing the cash wages paid to the Healthalicious employees. The payroll processing companies had no record of those employees who received the entirety of their pay in cash or the amounts of pay those employees had received. By under-reporting employee hours and concealing the existence of some employees, Grimm ensured that the payroll processing companies—which were responsible for filing numerous state and federal tax returns on behalf of the restaurant—calculated and then reported less than half of the wages actually paid to the employees. To further his scheme, Grimm maintained electronic spreadsheets detailing the true payroll information pertaining to Healthalicious, which included cash wages paid to Healthalicious employees, and concealed them from the payroll processing companies, among others. By concealing the off-the-books wages from the payroll processing companies and from an accountant Grimm retained to file other state and federal tax returns for the restaurant (the Healthalicious accountant), Grimm caused a number of false filings to occur, resulting the in underpayment of state and federal taxes, as well as an artificially reduced monthly workers’ compensation insurance premium. Those false filings and misrepresentations included: Federal quarterly payroll tax returns that did not report the true wages Healthalicious employees earned and that did not withhold the proper amount of Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) taxes due and owing to the federal government Federal partnership tax returns filed with the IRS for tax years 2008, 2009, and 2010 that did not accurately report the correct total wages Grimm paid his employees False payroll statements submitted to NYSIF by the payroll processing companies and the Healthalicious accountant during audits conducted by NYSIF that fraudulently lowered the monthly workers’ compensation premiums paid by Healthalicious The Scheme to Fraudulently Under-Report Healthalicious’ Gross Sales Grimm also fraudulently concealed from the Healthalicious accountant a significant amount of the cash sales that the restaurant generated from April 2007 through August 2010. As a result, Grimm filed numerous false tax returns with the federal government and the state of New York through the Healthalicious accountant. These false filings, among other things, concealed over $1 million of income that Healthalicious earned but did not report to New York State, causing a substantial sales tax loss to the state. Specifically, those false tax returns included: New York State Form ST-100 quarterly sales tax returns filed with the New York State Tax Department from June 2007 through August 2010 Federal partnership tax returns for Healthalicious for tax years 2008, 2009, and 2010. Each false return did not report the true amount of Healthalicious’ gross receipts for each tax year. As a result of Grimm’s fraudulent concealment of the restaurant’s income, Healthalicious’ true earnings were not reported on those tax returns. Consequently, those earnings did not flow through to the partners of the business and were not reflected on the personal income tax returns of the partners, including Grimm. Perjury and Obstruction of Justice Two former Healthalicious employees filed a federal civil lawsuit against Grimm in the Southern District of New York, alleging that he did not pay them the minimum wage or overtime pay pursuant to the Fair Labor Standards Act and the New York Labor Laws. In January 2013, an attorney representing a plaintiff deposed Grimm, who answered questions under oath relating to his ownership and operation of the restaurant. Specifically, during the deposition, Grimm was questioned concerning his ownership of Healthalicious, what duties he performed there, how he paid and set the hours and rates of pay for his employees, and whether he maintained e-mails or other records pertaining to those issues, among other things. To conceal his illegal actions, Grimm allegedly lied about several material matters in connection with the lawsuit such as: (a) whether he paid his employees in cash; (b) whether he had interacted with the payroll processing companies; (c) whether he corresponded regarding Healthalicious business through e-mail; and (d) whether he still had access to such an e-mail account. If convicted, Grimm faces a term of imprisonment of up to 20 years for each mail and wire fraud charge and for the obstruction charge, up to 10 years of imprisonment for the health care fraud charge, and up to five years of imprisonment for the charge of conspiring to defraud the United States and for each perjury charge. Grimm further faces a term of imprisonment of up to three years for each charge of aiding and assisting in the preparation of a false and fraudulent tax return and for the charge of obstructing and impeding the due administration of the Internal Revenue Laws. Finally, Grimm faces up to six months of imprisonment for engaging in a pattern or practice of hiring and continuing to employ unauthorized aliens, as well as forfeiture, restitution, and fines. Ms. Lynch expressed her appreciation to the Public Integrity Section of Department of Justice, the Northern Criminal Enforcement Section of the Tax Division of the Department of Justice, the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance, New York State Insurance Fund, and the New York State Department of Labor for their assistance in the investigation. The government’s case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Anthony M. Capozzolo, Todd D. Kaminsky, and Nathan Reilly. The charges contained in the indictment are merely allegations, and the defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. Defendant: Michael Grimm Age 44 Staten Island, New York Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption The following remarks were prepared for delivery for New York Assistant Director in Charge George Venizelos on the arrest of and charges filed against U.S. Representative Michael Grimm. Good morning. As a former FBI agent, Representative Grimm should understand the motto fidelity, bravery, and integrity. Yet he broke our credo at nearly every turn. In this 20-count indictment, Representative Grimm honored a new motto: fraud, perjury, and obstruction. We demand the best from our political leaders. We expect them to live by the very laws they craft in Washington. We expect them to lead by example and be role models for others. Today, we again find ourselves expecting and rightfully wanting more. And as citizens of this great nation, we rightfully demand it. Trust is earned over many years and can evaporate in an instant. Representative Grimm should understand the importance of upholding the public’s trust. Yet he violated that trust time and time again. Representative Grimm billed himself as a patriot and an American hero. A decorated Marine. A former FBI agent, now representing his fellow citizens of Staten Island and Brooklyn. But Representative Grimm was anything but an upstanding citizen. He cheated, evaded, and then lied. This is a story about relentless work by a team of FBI agents. The more than two-year investigation wouldn’t have been possible without FBI Special Agents Geoffrey Ford, Mark Person, Blaire Mulloy, and Peter Kilpatrick; their supervisor Jared Whitmier; and Assistant Special Agent in Charge George Khouzami. I’d also like to recognize the Internal Revenue Service’s Acting Special Agent in Charge Richard Majdanski for his agency’s partnership throughout this case. And most importantly, I would like to thank the United States Attorney, Loretta Lynch, for her commitment to this case throughout the process. This would never have been possible without her and her talented team, including Anthony Capozzolo, Todd Kaminsky, Nathan Reilly, and James Gatta. Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida; George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office; José A. Gonzalez, Special Agent in Charge, Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigations (IRS-CI); and Scott Israel, Sheriff, Broward Sheriff’s Office (BSO), announce the filing of charges against David Benjamin, 48, of Boca Raton, and Jeff Alan Poole, 47, of Weston, for conspiring to commit crimes in connection with the operation of the former Fort Lauderdale law firm of Rothstein, Rosenfeldt and Adler P.A. (RRA). In a criminal information filed earlier today, Benjamin was charged with conspiracy to commit extortion and to violate civil rights, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371. In a separate criminal information also filed today, Poole was charged with conspiracy to violate civil rights, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 241. The charges allege that, during the relevant time period, both defendants were employed by the Broward Sheriff’s Office. Benjamin was a lieutenant and served as executive officer to then Sheriff Al Lamberti. Poole was a detective assigned to the Strategic Investigations Division. The charging documents allege that both defendants agreed to utilize their respective positions within BSO unlawfully to further the interests of RRA, its chairman and CEO Scott W. Rothstein, and other persons associated with Rothstein. Specifically, the charging documents allege that Benjamin received approximately $185,000 in money and other things of value from Rothstein and RRA in return for providing his assistance when needed, including arranging with Poole to arrest the ex-wife of an attorney who was engaged in a child custody dispute with her, arranging to use force and threats of force against the boyfriend of an escort who was threatening to expose the illicit relationship that existed between the escort and one of the partners at RRA, and assisting Rothstein in loading cash and jewelry onto a private airplane that was used by Rothstein to flee to Morocco on October 27, 2009, as the Ponzi scheme being conducted through RRA was beginning to unravel. U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer stated, “David Benjamin and Jeff Poole used their official positions as law enforcement officers to commit civil rights abuses to further the interests of Scott Rothstein and others associated with Rothstein. When law enforcement officers betray the trust of the people, it strikes at the very core of our democracy. The informations filed today charging Benjamin and Poole should serve as a reminder that no one is above the law. When law enforcement officers violate the public’s trust, they will be held accountable. Benjamin and Poole are the 19th and 20th accomplices, respectively, to be held accountable in Rothstein’s $1.2 billion Ponzi scheme.” “When David Benjamin and Jeff Alan Poole began to use their official positions to further the illegal schemes of Rothstein and his cronies, they crossed a very bright line,” said William J. Maddalena, Assistant Special Agent in Charge, FBI Miami. “Their criminal misconduct undermined the public’s trust in law enforcement. As such, the FBI will continue to work with our partners to remove those law enforcement officers who violate the law. The FBI, in particular, would like to thank BSO for their close partnership investigating this matter.” IRS-CI SAC José A. Gonzalez stated, “Law enforcement officers and individuals in positions of our citizens’ trust are held to an even higher standard than the general public. It’s a sad day when a lieutenant and a detective of the Broward County Sheriff’s Office who are sworn to uphold the law, allegedly misuse their positions by engaging in criminal acts. IRS-CI, together with its law enforcement partners, will continue to ensure that no one operates above the law and are held accountable for their actions.” BSO Sheriff Scott Israel stated, “Every time a law enforcement officer is implicated in a crime, it’s a blow to our profession. This indictment tarnishes the image of honest, hard-working law enforcement officers everywhere. My immediate action after taking office was to suspend Deputy Poole and Lieutenant Benjamin based on an ongoing federal investigation. I applaud the diligence and professionalism displayed by our federal partners, and we will continue working closely with them to ensure justice is served.” Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI, IRS-CI, and BSO. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Lawrence D. LaVecchio, Paul F. Schwartz, and Jeffrey N. Kaplan. An information is only an accusation, and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls.
corruption LUBBOCK, TX—A San Angelo, Texas woman, who worked for a water utility service company in unincorporated Tom Green County was sentenced for embezzling approximately $43,000 from her employer, announced U.S. Attorney Sarah R. Saldaña of the Northern District of Texas. Melissa Manda Herrera, 38, was sentenced yesterday by U.S. District Judge Sam R. Cummings to 21 months in federal prison and ordered to pay $85,790 in restitution following her guilty plea in December 2013 to one count of theft concerning federally funded programs. Judge Cummings remanded her into the custody of the U.S. Marshal. Herrera worked as the office manager of the Red Creek Municipal Utility District from April 2003 through February 2012. The district, which receives federal financial assistance from the U.S. Department of Agriculture, was established in 1992 to provide water utility services to its customers. It is overseen by an elected, uncompensated board of directors, and it contracts with Concho Rural Water Corporation to manage the district’s water distribution system, conduct monthly readings of customers’ meters, and maintain the district’s customer billing records, which includes preparing and mailing monthly bills and posting customer payments based on information provided by the district’s office manager. The district employs only one person—the part-time office manager. As part of her duties, Herrera was responsible for establishing customer accounts, handling customer payment issues, and collecting all customer payments. Herrera admitted that while she was office manager for the district, she did not include all customer payments in the daily deposits made at the bank and, in fact, kept customers’ cash payments for her own benefit. The FBI, Tom Green County Sheriff’s Office, and San Angelo Police Department investigated. Assistant U.S. Attorney Ann Roberts led the prosecution.
corruption COLUMBUS—Former Columbus Police Detective Stevie Billups, 48, of Columbus, was sentenced to serve 57 months in prison for crimes he committed through his involvement with a local drug dealer. Carter M. Stewart, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Ohio; Kevin Cornelius, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Cincinnati Field Office (FBI); Karen Huey, Director of Enforcement for the Ohio Casino Control Commission; and Columbus Police Chief Kim Jacobs announced the sentence imposed today by Senior U.S. District Judge James L. Graham. Judge Graham also fined Billups $10,000 and ordered him to serve three years of supervised release after he completes his prison sentence. Billups pleaded guilty on November 22, 2013, to one count of attempted possession with intent to distribute heroin. According to a document the government filed with the court prior to today’s sentencing, in 2013 Billups provided armed protection for two transactions involving drugs while he was a Columbus Police officer. Billups began his relationship with a drug dealer when Billups began laundering money for the drug dealer by cashing in chips which helped the drug dealer avoid transaction reporting requirements at the Hollywood Casino in Columbus. According to court documents, Billups asked the drug dealer to “get him in the game.” Billups’ query led to the June 28th and July 17th drug stings by the FBI, whereby Billups protected the drug dealer in the pickup of purported drug money. He later provided protection for the drug dealer during a transaction which Billups believed involved the distribution of heroin. Billups provided protection during the second transaction while he was on duty, armed with his service weapon, and in a Columbus Division of Police unmarked detective vehicle. Billups received a total of $5,000 in exchange for providing protection to the drug dealer during these transactions. “Public confidence in our police to ‘do the right thing’ is undermined with each case of police corruption,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Doug Squires told the court. “It is a police officer’s duty to uphold the law and protect the public....Billups’ intent to aid and further the problems that heroin has brought to our communities for his own profit indicates the serious nature of this offense.” “Using a police officer’s badge and gun to commit crime is a particularly disturbing threat to the community,” stated SAC Kevin Cornelius. “This case highlights the fact that local, state, and federal agencies are working together to root out corruption and bring to justice those who betray the public’s trust.” “Ohio Casino Control Commission and its gaming agents are committed to working with our federal and local law enforcement partners to investigate criminal activity occurring at the casinos,” said Karen Huey. “The Commission will not tolerate money laundering or drug dealing at any of Ohio’s casinos.” U.S. Attorney Stewart praised the cooperative investigation by the Ohio Casino Control Commission and the FBI’s Central Ohio Public Corruption Task Force, which includes agents from the FBI and the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation (BCI). Mr. Stewart commended the Columbus Division of Police and Police Chief Kim Jacobs for the cooperation they provided during the course of this investigation and thanked the Homeland Security Investigations Bulk Cash Smuggling Task Force for helping initiate this investigation. The Bulk Cash Smuggling Task Force includes agents with Homeland Security Investigations and detectives with the Columbus Police Department, Franklin County Sheriff’s Office and the Ohio State Highway Patrol. Stewart also acknowledged Assistant United States Attorneys Doug Squires and David DeVillers, who prosecuted the case.
corruption ATLANTA—Six defendants, including three former police officers, pleaded guilty this week in federal court to accepting thousands of dollars in cash payments to provide protection during staged drug deals that were part of a federal undercover operation. “The audacity of police officers protecting drug deals is shocking,” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. “For these police officers, protecting and serving our citizens was little more than a slogan, and their brazen actions are unacceptable. Brave and honest law enforcement officers go to work every day to keep us safe, expecting their colleagues to serve the community unselfishly. Instead, these officers put greed before all else.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated, “Public corruption investigations, particularly those involving law enforcement officers, remain one of the FBI’s top criminal investigative priorities. The FBI extends its gratitude to its ATF partners for highlighting the corruption aspect of its case early on, which allowed the FBI to dedicate its investigative resources accordingly.” “These defendants took an oath to uphold the law and protect the citizens,” said ATF Acting Special Agent in Charge Ray Brown. “Instead, they betrayed the community they swore to protect. Officers like these unfortunately tarnish the badge worn proudly by the committed men and women of law enforcement. The success of this investigation would not have been possible without the dynamic level of law enforcement cooperation.” According to United States Attorney Yates, the charges, and other information presented in court: the undercover operation arose out of an ATF investigation of an Atlanta, Georgia-area street and drug gang in August 2011. During the investigation, ATF agents learned from an individual associated with the gang that police officers were involved in protecting the gang’s criminal operations, including drug trafficking crimes. That individual could not specifically identify the officers but provided investigators with the officers’ nicknames. Shortly after the investigation began, three individuals who have pleaded guilty, Shannon Bass, Jerry Mannery, and Elizabeth Coss, none of whom were police officers, provided officers’ names to a police informant and told the informant that the officers would provide security for drug deals in exchange for cash. The public corruption investigation, conducted by FBI and ATF agents, led to the indictment of 10 law enforcement officers. Three of the indicted officers have pleaded guilty. They are former Stone Mountain Police Officer Denoris Carter, 43, of Lithonia, Georgia; former DeKalb County Police Officers Dennis Duren, 33, of Atlanta, Georgia; and Dorian Williams, 25, of Stone Mountain, Georgia. All three officers were fired after their arrests in February 2013 and are no longer police officers. In addition to the officers, three others pleaded guilty to their roles in the scheme: Shannon Bass, 39, of Atlanta, Georgia, Elizabeth Coss, 36, also of Atlanta; and Jerry B. Mannery, 39, of Tucker, Georgia. Between April and September 2012, former Stone Mountain Police Department Officer Denoris Carter, working together with Jerry Mannery, provided protection for what he and Mannery believed were five separate transactions in the metro Atlanta area that involved multiple kilograms of cocaine. For all five transactions, Carter was on duty and dressed in his police uniform. During one transaction, he drove up in his marked patrol vehicle, got out, and walked through the parking lot to keep watch over the purported drug deal. During the final transaction, Carter was on foot and wore a gun on his belt. Denoris Carter pleaded guilty to one count of attempted distribution of cocaine and one count of extortion by accepting a bribe to use his position as a police officer to facilitate the deal. Between October 2011 and November 2011, former DeKalb County Police Officer Dennis Duren, working together with Shannon Bass, provided protection for what he and Bass believed were four separate drug deals in the Atlanta area. During the transactions, Duren, who was on duty, armed and in uniform, stood watch over the immediate area surrounding the undercover transaction. Dennis Duren pleaded guilty to one count of attempted distribution of cocaine and one count of extortion by accepting a bribe to use his position as a police officer to facilitate the deal. Bass pleaded guilty to attempted distribution of cocaine. Between January and February 2013, former DeKalb County Police Officer Dorian Williams, working together with Mannery and Bass, provided protection for what he believed to be three drug deals involving multiple kilograms of cocaine. On each occasion, Williams was in uniform and carrying a gun. He used his marked police vehicle to patrol the parking lots where the deals took place. Williams admitted that he specifically protected the drug deals from interference from legitimate police officers. Dorian Williams pleaded guilty to one count of attempted distribution and one count of extortion by accepting a bribe to use his position as a police officer to facilitate a deal. Mannery pleaded guilty to conspiring with the police officers to distribute cocaine. Elizabeth Coss pleaded guilty to attempted distribution of cocaine for her role in working with former MARTA police officer Marquez Holmes to provide security for a drug deal in August 2012. The court will likely sentence the defendants this summer. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives. Assistant United States Attorneys Kim S. Dammers and Brent Alan Gray are prosecuting the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Pressemails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Atlanta Division ishttp://www.justice.gov/usao/gan/.
corruption HOUSTON—Jesus Bustos, 58, has pleaded guilty to conspiracy, announced United States Attorney Kenneth Magidson. Bustos was charged in a second superseding federal indictment alleging his participation in a bribe paying scheme in Progreso. Today in Houston federal court, Bustos admitted that from 2004 through 2013, he paid bribes and kickbacks to obtain architectural contracts for his architectural firm IDEA Group LLC on public projects in Progreso and Weslaco. Bustos admitted he conspired with and primarily paid these bribes through an IDEA Group employee to obtain contracts on construction projects with the Progreso Independent School District (PISD) and with the Weslaco Independent School District (WISD). The collective value of the PISD and WISD projects on which Bustos paid bribes was in the millions of dollars. PISD’s Director of Maintenance and Transportation Jose Guadalupe Vela, Progreso Mayor Omar Vela, and PISD Board of Trustees President Michael Vela largely controlled contracting with PISD and directed PISD contracts to those who were willing to pay Vela family members bribes. Jose Vela shared the bribe money with PISD School Board members who were willing to vote for contractors that Jose Vela chose for their willingness to pay bribes. In Progreso, Bustos paid bribes through his employee to members of the Vela family to obtain contracts on PISD construction projects, to include West Elementary School, Fine Arts Center, North Elementary School, and the Science and Technology building. Bustos also personally delivered bribe money to Michael Vela in approximately 2011. In Weslaco, Bustos paid a bribe through his employee to a WISD school board member in order to obtain a contract on the Mario Ybarra Elementary School Construction project. He paid two bribes through his employee to the school board member at the end of the construction project in order to expedite payment from WISD to IDEA Group. U.S. District Judge David Hittner has set sentencing for July 25, 2014. At that time, Bustos faces up to five years in prison and a possible $250,000 fine. The case was investigated by the FBI. Assistant United States Attorney Robert S. Johnson is prosecuting.
corruption HOUSTON—Former Houston Police Department (HPD) officer Marcos E. Carrion, 36, has surrendered to authorities, announced United States Attorney Kenneth Magidson today. Carrion was charged in a sealed indictment returned April 16, 2014. It was unsealed as Carrion turned himself into authorities this morning. He is expected to make his initial appearance before U.S. Magistrate Judge George C. Hanks Jr. at 2:00 p.m. today. Carrion is charged with conspiring with others to possess with the intent to distribute five or more kilograms of cocaine from mid-2013 through April 2014. Carrion, a five-year HPD veteran, had recently resigned from his position. If convicted, he faces a minimum of 10 years and up to life in federal prison as well as a possible $10 million fine. The charges are the result of a six-month investigation by the Drug Enforcement Administration with the assistance of HPD and the FBI. The case will be prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Mark E. Donnelly and Shelley J. Hicks. An indictment is a formal accusation of criminal conduct, not evidence. A defendant is presumed innocent unless convicted through due process of law.
corruption WASHINGTON—Darren Malry, 51, a corrections officer, has been arrested and charged with bribery following an undercover FBI investigation in which he allegedly accepted money for smuggling contraband into the District of Columbia’s Correctional Treatment Facility. The charge was announced by U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen, Jr.; Valerie Parlave, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office; and Thomas N. Faust, Director of the District of Columbia Department of Corrections. Malry was arrested by the FBI on April 21, 2014, and appeared today in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. He pled not guilty and was released on personal recognizance pending a hearing on May 6, 2014. At the time of his arrest, Malry worked for the Corrections Corporation of America (CCA) as a corrections officer at the Correctional Treatment Facility. CCA, a private company, has a contract to provide services to the D.C. Jail According to the charging documents, on March 11, 2014, Malry met with an undercover FBI agent in the parking lot of a shopping center in Greenbelt, Maryland. The undercover agent gave Malry a cell phone, cigarettes, and rolling papers for Malry to deliver to an inmate housed at the Correctional Treatment Facility. The undercover agent also provided Malry with $750 in cash at that meeting, which was given in exchange for Malry smuggling the contraband into the facility and delivering it to the inmate. The FBI recovered the contraband from the inmate shortly after Malry gave the items to the inmate in the inmate’s jail cell. Malry met again with the undercover FBI agent on April 21, 2014, at a restaurant in the same shopping center in Greenbelt. At that meeting, the undercover agent gave Malry cigarettes and several packages of a substance resembling marijuana. The undercover agent also provided Malry with $600 in cash, which was in exchange for Malry smuggling the contraband into facility for the same inmate. Malry subsequently was arrested. A criminal complaint is merely a formal charge that a defendant has committed a violation of criminal laws. Every defendant is presumed innocent until, and unless, proven guilty. The case is being investigated by the FBI’s Washington Field Office, with assistance from the District of Columbia Department of Corrections Office of Investigative Services. It is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard DiZinno of the Fraud and Public Corruption Section of the U.S. Attorney’s Office, with assistance from Assistant U.S. Attorneys Catherine K. Connelly and Allessandra Stewart,of the Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, and George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office, announce the conviction of William Garcia, 39, a detective with the Sweetwater Police Department. On April 21, 2014, a jury in U.S. District Court found Garcia guilty on 12 counts. Specifically, the defendant was found guilty of one count conspiring to produce, use, or traffic in one or more counterfeit access devices, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371; one count of use of a counterfeit access device, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1029(a)(1); and ten counts of aggravated identity theft, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1028A(a)(1). Garcia faces a mandatory minimum sentence of two years’ imprisonment and a maximum sentence of 35 years in prison. At trial, the United States presented evidence documenting Garcia’s improper friendship with a former confidential source. The confidential source, a convicted felon, provided Garcia and another former South Miami Detective Richard Munoz with counterfeit credit cards. During the trial, the source, Munoz, and others testified about Garcia’s possession and use of those cards during shopping trips to Miami-Dade County shopping malls in 2010 and early 2011. During a meeting in late December 2010, Garcia was recorded providing his own personal credit card for use in stealing account numbers and manufacturing counterfeit cards. Additional evidence at trial showed that Garcia was caught on videotape bringing eight counterfeit credit cards to the residence of the confidential source. During that and other recorded meetings, Garcia explained that he had taken the counterfeit cards from work and that he would share them with the confidential source. During the next two weeks, Garcia was recorded discussing his use of the cards at restaurants, movies, and a mall. Garcia’s presence during the transactions was further documented through use of phone records, placing Garcia’s cell phone in the area of each transaction at the time it occurred. After the verdict, U.S. District Court Judge Federico Moreno remanded Garcia pending sentencing on June 26, 2014, at 9:30 a.m. in Miami. Munoz, who himself pleaded guilty on March 13, 2014, to related fraud charges, is presently set for sentencing in front of Judge Moreno on May 9, 2014. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI Miami Area Corruption Task Force, the FBI Miami Cyber Task Force, and the Sweetwater Police Department. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Anthony Lacosta and Sarah Schall. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls.
corruption The United States Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania announced that former Lackawanna County Attorney Danielle Ross Pietralczyk, age 37, of Jermyn, Pennsylvania, was sentenced today to one year imprisonment for federal income tax fraud by Senior U.S. District Judge A. Richard Caputo in federal court in Wilkes-Barre. According to United States Attorney Peter Smith, Ross failed to report any amounts of income she received from private paying clients while acting as the sole guardian ad litem for the Lackawanna County Family Court on her personal federal income tax returns for calendar year 2008, 2009, and 2010. Ross pled guilty to filing a false return for 2009 in December 2013. Her husband, Walter Pietralczyk, pled guilty to a tax misdemeanor charge in connection with the joint personal tax return of the couple in December 2013. No sentencing date has been set. As the sole guardian ad litem for the Lackawanna County Family Court, Ross was paid an annual compensation of $38,000. Pursuant to a contract between Ross and Lackawanna County, Ross was permitted to bill private paying parties above her county compensation at a rate of $50 per hour. The only income Ross reported for 2009 and 2010 was her county compensation reported on 1099 Forms, which she received as an independent contractor hired by Lackawanna County. The government alleged that Ross managed and exercised complete control over her private billings and income. That income was known only to Ross and not Lackawanna County, nor was Lackawanna County required to approve Ross’s private billings. The guardian ad litem serves as the representative of the interest of children in family court. Ross was dismissed as Lackawanna County guardian ad litem in February 2013 after her indictment on the federal tax charges. Her license to practice law was suspended in December 2013. The prosecution was the result of a joint investigation by the United States Internal Revenue Service (IRS)-Criminal Investigations, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and the Lackawanna County District Attorney’s Office. Prosecution was handled by Assistant United States Attorney Michelle Olshefski. In addition to the one year prison sentence, Ross was sentenced to one year of supervised release and ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $63,124 plus interest and penalties. Ross is scheduled to report to the custody of the Bureau of Prisons on May 12, 2014.
corruption ST. THOMAS—District Court Judge Curtis V. Gomez today sentenced Roberto Tapia, 55, to 70 months in prison for using the Virgin Islands Department of Planning and Natural Resources (DPNR) as a criminal enterprise to engage in illegal drug trafficking activities, United States Attorney Ronald W. Sharpe announced. Tapia, DPNR’s former director of Environmental Enforcement, pleaded guilty on September 19, 2013, to using DPNR as a criminal enterprise to engage in illegal drug trafficking activities. He was arrested on May 17, 2013, and charged with conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute cocaine and possession of a firearm in furtherance of drug trafficking. On September 12, 2013, he was charged in a 34-count second superseding indictment, along with six other defendants, including Virgin Islands police sergeant Angelo Hill, Raymond Brown, Hector Alcenio, Edwin Monsanto, Stephen Torres, and Eddie Lopez-Lopez. The indictment and plea followed an extensive investigation conducted by the Federal Public Corruption Task Force, which culminated with the arrest of Tapia while in possession of seven kilograms of cocaine. “It’s a sad day when a high-ranking law enforcement officer has to be sentenced for violating the public’s trust,” U.S. Attorney Sharpe said. “The egregious criminal conduct perpetrated by this individual, who chose to abuse his position for selfish gain at the expense of the safety and welfare of the community, taints every hard-working law enforcement officer. My office will continue to vigorously fight public corruption and target individuals who undermine the public trust.” The case was investigated by the Public Corruption Task Force, which is composed the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI); U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA); Virgin Islands Police Department; U.S. Marshals Service; Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation Division (IRS-CI); U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Investigations (HSI); U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP); United States Coast Guard; Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF); and Office of the Virgin Islands Inspector General. It was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Kelly B. Lake.
corruption Marcelo Alvarez, a-year-old surveyor and consultant from Eagle Pass, faces up to 10 years in federal prison and full restitution to Maverick County after pleading guilty to a bribery charge in connection with an alleged bribery, kickback and bid-rigging scheme, announced United States Attorney Robert Pitman and Acting FBI Special Agent in Charge Aaron C. Rouse. Appearing before United States District Judge Alia Moses this afternoon in Del Rio, Alvarez pleaded guilty to one count of paying a bribe to an agent of an organization receiving federal funds. According to court documents, between 2010 and 2012, Alvarez paid $100 to $200 on multiple occasions to Maverick County elected officials, including two county commissioners, for their support in securing county construction projects. Ultimately, Maverick County paid in excess of $800,000 to Amistad Consulting, a company which Alvarez was connected to, to perform engineering, project management, and consulting services for the county. Alvarez, designated by Amistad Consulting as the Resident Project Representative, received payment for his services of approximately $300,000 between 2010 and 2012. Alvarez remains on bond pending sentencing scheduled for October 1, 2014. This ongoing investigation is being conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Texas Department of Public Safety. Individuals who have first-hand information about corruption, fraud, or bribery related to Maverick County are urged to contact the FBI at (210) 225-6741. Assistant United States Attorneys Michael Galdo and Bryan N. Reeves are prosecuting this case on behalf of the government.
corruption WICHITA, KS—A former city clerk for the city of Havana, Kansas, was sentenced Wednesday to two years’ supervised release, U.S. Attorney Barry Grissom said. She also was ordered to pay a total of more than $59,000 in restitution to the city of Havana, Cross Point Baptist Church, and an insurance company. Diana L. Cox, 67, Havana, Kansas, pleaded guilty to one count of bank fraud and one count of wire fraud. In her plea, she admitted embezzling $14,658 from the city of Havana while she was working as city clerk. On August 18, 2011, she presented documents to the Arvest Bank in Caney, Kansas, falsely stating that the Havana City Council had voted to change its policy to require only one signature on checks written for city business. She also admitted that while she was treasurer of the Cross Point Baptist Church, she devised a scheme to defraud the church of approximately $44,568. On December 30, 2011, she caused the church to electronically transfer approximately $2,536 to Vanderbilt Mortgage and Finance to make a mortgage payment due on her daughter’s home. Grissom commended the FBI and Assistant U.S. Attorney Mona Furst for their work on the case.
corruption HAMMOND, IN—United States Attorney David Capp announced today two indictments naming Keith Soderquist, the mayor of Lake Station. The first indictment charges Soderquist, age 44, and his wife, Deborah Soderquist, age 55, who was employed as the administrative assistant to Mayor Soderquist. The indictment alleges a conspiracy between Keith and Deborah Soderquist to commit wire fraud in connection with financial transactions involving the mayor’s campaign finance account and the Lake Station Food Pantry account. These accounts were allegedly utilized by the Soderquists to obtain cash for personal expenses, including gambling activities at casinos in Indiana and Michigan. The indictment also charges both Keith and Deborah Soderquist with filing false tax returns for the years 2010, 2011, and 2012. The basis for the tax charges is their failure to disclose the money they took from the campaign and food pantry account that they converted to their own personal uses. The second indictment names Keith Soderquist, Deborah Soderquist, and Miranda Brakley, age 33, a former employee of Lake Station. Brakley is charged in count one of the second indictment with theft of funds from Lake Station from August 1, 2011 through July 31, 2012. Brakley is also charged in count two with bankruptcy fraud for failing to disclose certain payments received from Lake Station on her bankruptcy schedules. Keith and Deborah Soderquist are charged in count three of the second indictment for being accessories after the fact. That count alleges that, after knowing that Brakley had committed the theft alleged in count one, they assisted Brakley in order to hinder and prevent Brakley’s apprehension, trial, and punishment. The last count alleges that Keith and Deborah Soderquist structured a series of financial transactions in order to avoid the reporting requirements under federal law. The indictment alleges that in December 2012, the Soderquists obtained $15,000 from an individual. They instructed that individual to write three checks in amounts less than $10,000 (the reporting requirement under federal law) and to back date two of those checks. From December 8-12, 2012, those checks were cashed at different branches of JP Morgan Chase bank. The investigation that led to the second indictment was initiated after a State Board of Accounts audit disclosed missing funds that had been posted as bond money with the Lake Station City Court. United States Attorney David Capp stated, “These indictments are part of this office’s ongoing public corruption investigation. Today’s indictments were the result of an extensive investigative effort by the FBI, IRS, and ISP. This investigative team will continue to investigate allegations of abuse of the public trust.” The Soderquists and Brakley are expected to surrender to authorities at the Hammond federal courthouse Thursday morning. This case is a result of an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Internal Revenue Service, and the Indiana State Police. This case will be prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Joshua Kolar and Philip Benson. The United States Attorney’s Office emphasized that an indictment is merely an allegation and that all persons charged are presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty in court.
corruption CHICAGO—Two former analysts for the Cook County Board of Review were sentenced today for accepting $1,500 to facilitate reducing by more than $10,000 the property taxes on three residential properties. Thomas Hawkins was sentenced to 24 months in prison, and John Racasi was sentenced to 18 months in prison after they were convicted of federal conspiracy, bribery, and fraud charges. They were captured scheming with others to facilitate reducing property tax assessments in exchange for bribes in undercover recordings that were played at their week-long trial last October in U.S. District Court. Hawkins, 50, and Racasi, 53, half-brothers and both of Chicago, were analysts on the staff of one of the three Board of Review commissioners in September 2008 when they accepted the $1,500 bribe payment. Each of the three commissioners has analysts who handle residential property tax appeals, and at least two of the three commissioners’ analysts must agree in order to reduce the Cook County Assessor’s property tax assessments. “Offenses like [these] betray the citizens who pay property taxes in Cook County and who expect the process in place for assessing property values and appealing those property tax assessments to operate fairly and legitimately,” Assistant U.S. Attorneys Margaret J. Schneider and Michael T. Donovan, argued at sentencing. According to the evidence at trial, Ali Haleem, a former Chicago police officer who began cooperating with the FBI in July 2008 and is awaiting sentencing on other federal charges, was introduced to Hawkins, who, in turn, introduced him to Racasi. Haleem recorded numerous meetings and telephone conversations with both defendants in which they discussed facilitating property tax assessment reductions in exchange for bribes. In September 2008, Haleem, Hawkins, and Racasi discussed the specifics of the bribe Haleem would pay for reducing tax assessments on properties in Chicago, Burbank, and Tinley Park. On September 11, 2008, Hawkins and Racasi agreed to reduce the assessed values on properties Haleem owned in Chicago and Burbank, as well as a property in Tinley Park owned by another individual, for three years beginning with the 2008 tax year. Hawkins and Racasi provided Haleem with analysis sheets for these properties, which could be used to calculate the tax savings that a property owner would realize over the three-year period. In return for the $1,500 bribe, Hawkins and Racasi promised Haleem a total tax savings for the three properties over the threeyear period of at least approximately $10,000. The payment was made on September 17, 2008, when Haleem met with Hawkins and Racasi and handed the money to Racasi. Hawkins assured Haleem that Racasi would later provide Hawkins with his share of the money. Hawkins and Racasi also facilitated a reduction in property tax assessments on 11 condominium units in Chicago, expecting to receive bribe payments that Haleem would collect from the property owners once the reductions were verified. The sentences were announced by Zachary T. Fardon, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois, and Robert J. Holley, Special Agent in Charge of the Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The FBI’s Chicago City Public Corruption Task Force led the investigation with assistance from the Chicago Police Department’s Internal Affairs Division, which is a task force member.
corruption INDIANAPOLIS—U.S. Attorney Joseph H. Hogsett and the Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation Indianapolis Division, Robert A. Jones, announced the arrest of Andrew Fenwick, a/k/a “Mo,” age 24, of Greencastle, Indiana. Fenwick serves as a reserve deputy with the Putnam County Sheriff’s Department (PCSD) and is the son of Putnam County Sheriff Steve Fenwick. A federal grand jury indictment, unsealed this morning, charges Fenwick with three counts of false declarations made by Fenwick before it. The indictment alleges that Fenwick provided false testimony during an investigation into alleged activity of excessive force of PCSD Deputy Terry Joe Smith. On March 4, 2014, the grand jury returned an indictment alleging that Smith had used excessive force against citizens on four occasions in his capacity as a PCSD Deputy. The charges against Smith remain pending and are currently set for trial on April 28, 2014. The grand jury indictment alleges that Fenwick provided material false statements with respect to (1) the degree to which Fenwick used force to assist Smith in the apprehension of an individual near Moore’s Bar in Greencastle on November 6, 2011, (2) whether Fenwick had seen a police report prepared by Smith concerning Smith’s use of force against another individual at the Cloverdale Truck Stop on December 28, 2013, and (3) whether the victim of Smith’s use of force at the Cloverdale Truck Stop had struck Fenwick with a closed first before Smith used physical force against this individual. “Just one month ago, I was here discussing the conduct of a Putnam County Sheriff’s deputy involving allegations of the mistreatment of citizens in his custody,” said Hogsett. “Interfering with an investigation will not be tolerated by this office, and we will hold those who do so fully accountable. These charges allege that Mr. Fenwick chose to lie rather than assist authorities as they investigated allegations of excessive force by a law enforcement officer who has taken an oath to ‘serve and protect,’” Hogsett asserted. Hogsett praised the outstanding law enforcement work by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The FBI is a leading partner in the U.S. Attorney’s Public Integrity Working Group, which was launched in April 2012 with the stated purpose of aggressively investigating allegations of misconduct and wrongdoing by public officials in Indiana. According to Assistant United States Attorneys Bradley A. Blackington and MaryAnn T. Mindrum, who are prosecuting the case for the government, Smith could be sentenced to up to five years in federal prison for each count and could also face significant fines and federal supervision for up to three years once he has served his prison term. An indictment is only a charge and is not evidence of guilt. A defendant is presumed innocent and is entitled to a fair trial at which the government must prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption A former Detroit Public Library official pleaded guilty to bribery charges today, U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade announced. Joining McQuade in the announcement were Special Agent in Charge Paul M. Abbate, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Detroit Field Office, and Carolyn Weber, Acting Special Agent in Charge, Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation. Timothy Cromer, 47, of West Bloomfield, the library’s chief administrative and technology officer from 2006 to 2013, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge George Caram Steeh to bribery and conspiracy to commit bribery. Cromer was charged with taking more than $1.4 million in bribes and kickbacks from contractors of the library. According to the indictment, Cromer helped co-defendant James Henley create a business in 2007 called Core Consulting & Professional Services and then arranged for Core to win a bid to provide information technology services to the library. The contract, along with various change orders and extensions that Cromer approved, caused the library to pay Core $1.8 million. Cromer is also charged with receiving kickbacks from Ricardo Hearn, who is also charged in the indictment. Cromer was charged with approving no-bid professional services contracts for Hearn’s company, Cubemation LLC, to perform information technology services for the library from 2008 until 2010. According to the indictment, Cubemation received about $2.8 million in payments from the Detroit Public Library. In total, Cromer is alleged to have accepted more than $1.4 million in kickbacks from Henley and Hearn. Through his plea, Cromer admitted that he received a bribe from Henley and that he conspired with Hearn to commit bribery. A sentencing date will be set by the court. Co-defendants Henley and Hearn previously pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery and are scheduled to be sentenced on June 3, 2014. United States Attorney McQuade said, “Our public libraries exist to enrich our citizens, not to generate profits for the officials who work there. Today’s guilty plea to bribery charges reflects a betrayal to the honest public servants who have dedicated themselves to the Detroit Public Library and the people they serve.” “In cases like this, where a government official takes bribes and abuses a position of trust, it amounts to stealing directly from the community,” stated Paul M. Abbate, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI Detroit Field Office. “Public libraries serve a special purpose in enriching our communities, and government officials are entrusted with a great responsibility toward our citizens. The FBI Detroit Field Office, in concert with our local, state, and federal partners, will continue to pursue those who breach the public’s trust and hold them accountable under the law for their actions.” “The sizeable amount of the kickbacks Cromer received represents the degree to which he was cheating the public,” said IRS Acting Special Agent in Charge Carolyn Weber. “It is unacceptable to help yourself to public funds, but if you do, IRS-Criminal Investigation will be there to seek justice on behalf of the citizens of Detroit.” The case was investigated by agents of the FBI and the IRS. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Elizabeth A. Stafford and Julie Beck.
corruption WASHINGTON—The chief executive officer and a managing partner of a New York-based U.S. broker-dealer were arrested today on felony charges arising from a conspiracy to pay bribes to a senior official in Venezuela’s state economic development bank. Acting Assistant Attorney General David A. O’Neil of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara of the Southern District of New York, and Assistant Director in Charge George Venizelos of the New York Office of the FBI made the announcement. According to the indictment unsealed today, Benito Chinea and Joseph DeMeneses, who were the chief executive officer and a managing partner, respectively, of a New York-based broker-dealer (broker-dealer), are accused of conspiring with others to pay and launder bribes to Maria de los Angeles Gonzalez de Hernandez, a senior official in Venezuela’s state-owned economic development bank, Banco de Desarollo Económico y Social de Venezuela (BANDES) in exchange for her directing BANDES’s financial trading business to the broker-dealer. DeMeneses was also charged with conspiring to obstruct an examination of the broker-dealer by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to conceal the true facts of the broker-dealer’s relationship with BANDES. Chinea, 47, was arrested today in Manalapan, New Jersey, where he resides, and DeMeneses, 44, was arrested today in Fairfield, Connecticut, where he resides. In a separate action, the SEC announced civil charges against Chinea, DeMeneses, and others involved in the bribery scheme. “These senior Wall Street executives are accused of paying six-figure bribes to an official in Venezuela to secure foreign business for their firm,” said Acting Assistant Attorney General O’Neil. “Today’s charges show once again that we will aggressively pursue individual executives, all the way up the corporate ladder, when they try to bribe their way ahead of the competition.” “These two defendants, senior executives at a U.S. brokerage firm, are the fifth and sixth people to be charged in an alleged conspiracy to corrupt the trading business of a state-run economic development bank of Venezuela,” said U.S. Attorney Bharara. “They are alleged to have bribed a willing officer at the bank to steer its overseas trading business to the defendants’ brokerage firm, reaping millions for these defendants and their partners in crime. This office will not tolerate the kind of outright bribery and concealment that characterized this scheme.” “As alleged in the indictment, Chinea and Demeneses bribed Gonzalez to secure bank BANDES’s financial trading business,” said FBI ADIC Venizelos. “Demeneses compounded the broker-dealer’s illegal activities by conspiring to obstruct an investigation by regulators. The arrests today of Chinea and Demeneses should be a reminder to all those in the business community that engaging in bribery schemes to secure business and make a profit is illegal. Together with our law enforcement partners, the FBI will continue to investigate bribery and fraud at all levels.” According to the allegations in the indictment unsealed today, as well as other documents previously filed in Manhattan federal court, Chinea and DeMeneses worked at the headquarters of the broker-dealer in New York City. In 2008, the broker-dealer established a group called the Global Markets Group (GMG), which offered fixed income trading services for institutional clients in the purchase and sale of foreign sovereign debt. One of the broker-dealer’s GMG clients was BANDES, which operated under the direction of the Venezuelan Ministry of Finance. Gonzalez was an official at BANDES and oversaw the development bank’s overseas trading activity. At her direction, BANDES conducted substantial trading through the broker-dealer. Most of the trades executed by the broker-dealer on behalf of BANDES involved fixed income investments for which the broker-dealer charged the bank a commission. As alleged in court documents, from late 2008 through 2012, Chinea and DeMeneses, together with three Miami-based broker-dealer employees, Ernesto Lujan, Tomas Alberto Clarke Bethancourt, and Jose Alejandro Hurtado, participated in a bribery scheme in which Gonzalez directed trading business she controlled at BANDES to the broker-dealer, and in return, agents and employees of the broker-dealer split the revenue the broker-dealer generated from this trading business with Gonzalez. During this time period, the broker-dealer generated over $60 million in commissions from trades with BANDES. In order to conceal their conduct, Chinea, DeMeneses and their co-conspirators routed the payments to Gonzalez, frequently in six-figure amounts, through third-parties posing as “foreign finders” and into offshore bank accounts. In several instances, Chinea personally signed checks worth millions of dollars that were made payable to one of these purported “foreign finders” and later deposited in a Swiss bank account. As further alleged in court documents, as a result of the bribery scheme, BANDES quickly became the broker-dealer’s most profitable customer. As the relationship continued, however, Gonzalez became increasingly unhappy about the untimeliness of the payments due her from the Broker-Dealer, and she threatened to suspend BANDES’s business. In response, DeMeneses and Clarke agreed to pay Gonzalez approximately $1.5 million from their personal funds. Chinea and DeMeneses agreed to use broker-dealer funds to reimburse DeMeneses and Clarke for these bribe payments. To conceal their true nature, Chinea and DeMeneses agreed to hide these reimbursements in the broker-dealer’s books as sham loans from the broker-dealer to corporate entities associated with DeMeneses and Clarke. Court documents also allege that beginning in or around November 2010, the SEC commenced a periodic examination of the broker-dealer, and from November 2010 through March 2011, the SEC’s exam staff made several visits to the broker-dealer’s offices in Manhattan. In or about early 2011, DeMeneses and others involved in the scheme discussed that the SEC was examining the broker-dealer’s relationship with BANDES. DeMeneses and others agreed they would take steps to conceal the true facts of the broker-dealer’s relationship with BANDES, including by deleting e-mails, in order to hide the actual relationship from the SEC. Chinea and DeMeneses were each charged with one count of conspiracy to violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the Travel Act, five counts of violating the FCPA, and five counts of violating of the Travel Act. Chinea and DeMeneses were also charged with one count of conspiracy to commit money laundering and three counts of money laundering. DeMeneses was further charged with one count of conspiracy to obstruct justice. Previously, on August 29 and August 30, 2013, Lujan, Hurtado, and Clarke each pleaded guilty in Manhattan federal court to conspiring to violate the FCPA, to violate the Travel Act, and to commit money laundering, as well as substantive counts of these offenses, relating, among other things, to the scheme involving bribe payments to Gonzalez. On November 18, 2013, Gonzalez pleaded guilty in Manhattan federal court to conspiring to violate the Travel Act and to commit money laundering, as well as substantive counts of these offenses, for her role in the corrupt scheme. The charges contained in the indictment are merely accusations, and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. This ongoing investigation is being conducted by the FBI, with assistance from the Criminal Division’s Office of International Affairs. The department appreciates the substantial assistance provided by the SEC. Senior Deputy Chief James Koukios and Trial Attorney Maria Gonzalez Calvet of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Harry A. Chernoff and Jason H. Cowley of the Southern District of New York’s Securities and Commodities Fraud Task Force are in charge of the prosecution. Assistant U.S. Attorney Carolina Fornos is responsible for the forfeiture aspects of the case. Additional information about the Justice Department’s FCPA enforcement efforts can be found at www.justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa. Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption LOS ANGELES—Robert A. Rizzo, the former top administrator in the city of Bell who has admitted his role in a widespread municipal corruption scandal, was sentenced today to 33 months in federal prison in a tax fraud scheme designed to hide part of the massive income he was bilking from the small Los Angeles County city. Rizzo was sentenced today by United States District Judge George H. King, who said Rizzo’s activities demonstrated “greed in cheating the taxpayers of the United States after cheating the citizens of Bell.” In issuing the 33-month prison term, Judge King ordered that it run consecutive to a prison term Rizzo is expected to receive Wednesday when he is sentenced in Los Angeles Superior Court in his corruption case. Rizzo, 60, of Torrance, pleaded guilty in January to federal charges—conspiracy and filing a false federal income tax return with the Internal Revenue Service—in a scheme that resulted in hundreds of thousands of dollars in unpaid federal income tax. At today’s sentencing hearing, Judge King ordered Rizzo to pay $255,984 in restitution, a figure that equals the amount of unpaid taxes directly attributable to the defendant. In his plea agreement, Rizzo admitted that he created a corporation to fraudulently claim losses on his income tax return, which served to illegally reduce his tax liability on the significant income he was receiving from the city of Bell. Rizzo also admitted claiming personal expenses as business deductions. Rizzo’s “conduct can only be described as corrupt,” prosecutors wrote in a sentencing memo filed with the court. Not only did Rizzo fleece the city of Bell and its residents, he also bilked the Internal Revenue Service “in an extraordinary display of greed.” According to court documents, Rizzo, sometime in 2002, created an S Corporation that he called R.A. Rizzo Incorporated (RARI). Rizzo was assisted in the scheme by co-conspirators that included his tax preparer, Robert J. Melcher, who has pleaded guilty to aiding and abetting the filing of a false tax return. Rizzo used RARI to claim bogus losses in relation to a purported rental property in Auburn, Washington. RARI’s corporate tax return fraudulently deducted more than $571,530 in losses for the years 2006 through 2009. Rizzo also admitted in his plea agreement that he used a RARI account to pay for more than $80,000 in personal expenses in 2009 and $120,000 in construction work on his residence in Huntington Beach in 2010. RARI’s tax returns falsely claimed that these expenses were related to rental property. Rizzo “abused his position to fleece the city of Bell of hundreds of thousands of dollars that he paid to himself in excessive salary—monies that could have been spent for the benefit of the people he served,” according to the government’s sentencing memorandum. “But not satisfied with betraying the trust place in him by the city and its residents, in an extraordinary display of greed, [Rizzo] also found it necessary to cheat the IRS.” Melcher, who as a result of his guilty plea faces a sentence of up to three years in prison, is scheduled to be sentenced on May 12 by Judge King. The cases against Rizzo and Melcher are part of an ongoing investigation being conducted by special agents with IRS-Criminal Investigation and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
corruption TOPEKA, KS—The former treasurer of the Mayetta Rural Fire District #1 was sentenced Monday to 30 months in federal prison for embezzling from the district, U.S. Attorney Barry Grissom said. The defendant also was ordered to pay more than $427,000 in restitution. At sentencing, U.S. District Judge Julie A. Robinson noted that the defendant created a dangerous situation by depleting fire department funds that should have been used to purchase fire equipment. Richard P. Bontrager, 68, Holton, Kansas, pleaded guilty to one count of embezzlement. In his plea, he admitted that in 2008, he began embezzling from the fire district by issuing checks with the forged signatures of members of the board of the fire district. The checks were made payable to R & S Services, a fictitious entity Bontrager created so he could deposit the fraudulent checks into his own account at Denison State Bank. From 2008 to 2012, he made approximately $427,042 in unauthorized transfers from the fire district’s accounts. In addition, without the knowledge of the board of the fire district, he falsified loan documents to obligate the fire district to monthly lease payments on a Polaris Ranger UTV and a 1988 Chevrolet one-ton brush truck. He created false board minutes to make it appear the board had approved the lease payments. Grissom commended the Jackson County Sheriff’s Office, the FBI, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard Hathaway for their work on the case.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida; George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office; David W. Bourne, Special Agent in Charge, Food and Drug Administration, Office of Criminal Investigations, Miami Field Office; and Vincent Demsi, Chief, West Palm Beach Police Department, announce the filing of charges against Dewitt McDonald, 45, of Wellington. Initial appearance for McDonald is scheduled for Tuesday, April 15, 2014, in Fort Lauderdale before U.S. Magistrate Judge Alicia O. Valle. According to the information filed with the court, the defendant was a police officer with the West Palm Beach Police Department. Dewitt McDonald was charged with one count of knowingly carrying a firearm during and in relation to a drug trafficking crime, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 924(c)(1)(A). If convicted, the defendant faces a minimum sentence of five years in prison and a maximum statutory sentence of up to life in prison. The information against McDonald charges that, while employed as a police officer, the defendant operated two businesses: Prime Performance Wellness Centers Inc., located in Lake Worth, and Prime Health and Rejuvenation Clinic, located in Wellington, through which he unlawfully distributed anabolic steroids and other prescription drugs. The information further alleges that on March 5, 2013, while on duty and carrying his Smith & Wesson MP40 pistol, the defendant made a delivery of these drugs to someone in Palm Beach County, Florida. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI and FDA Office of Criminal Investigations. Mr. Ferrer also thanked the West Palm Beach Police Department for their cooperation and assistance in this matter. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Lawrence D. LaVecchio, Paul F. Schwartz, and Jeffrey N. Kaplan. An information is only an accusation, and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at http://www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls.  
corruption TEXARKANA, AR—Conner Eldridge, United States Attorney for the Western District of Arkansas, announced that Keesha Rose, age 36, appeared today in United States Magistrate Court for arraignment before United States Magistrate Judge Barry Bryant on charges for embezzling funds from the Lafayette County Treasurer’s Office. Rose currently serves as the treasurer and tax collector for Lafayette County. U.S. Attorney Eldridge commented, “We remain committed to investigating and prosecuting public officials that abuse the trust placed in them by embezzling public funds. Such conduct offends taxpayers and citizens as well as the vast majority of public officials who dedicate themselves to service day in and day out.” “Today’s charges are the result of the collaborative efforts of the FBI’s Ark Trust Public Corruption Task Force, Arkansas State Police, and the United States Attorney’s Office,” stated Special Agent in Charge David T. Resch. “Together, we are highly committed to combatting corruption by following the facts where they lead us. In this case, we allege Mrs. Rose abused her position as Lafayette County treasurer and tax collector by embezzling funds that that were entrusted in her care. ” On January 29, 2014, a federal grand jury issued an indictment against Rose charging her with two counts of theft of a program receiving federal funds in excess of at least $5,000. A legislative audit conducted by the Joint Division of Legislative Audit of the finances in Lafayette County resulted in the charges against Rose for funds embezzled while she served as County Treasurer. This case is being investigated by the FBI and the Arkansas State Police. Assistant United States Attorney Jonathan Ross is prosecuting the case for the United States. The charges in the indictment are only allegations. A person is presumed innocent unless or until he or she is proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
corruption HOUSTON—Jose Vela, 65, and his Michael Vela, 30, have entered guilty pleas to conspiracy and bribery concerning programs receiving federal funds, announced United States Attorney Kenneth Magidson. Also pleading guilty today in a separate but related case was Orlando Vela, 33. Jose and Michael Vela were originally charged along with Omar Vela and others based on their alleged participation in a scheme to create a “pay to play” public contracting system in Progreso. Today, they admitted they participated in the scheme from 2004 through 2013. Michael, Omar, and Orlando are brothers, and Jose is their father. Omar is the mayor of Progreso, while Michael was the president of the Progreso Independent School District Board (PISD) of Trustees. From 2004 through 2013, PISD received more than $1 million per year in federal program grants and funds from the U.S. Department of Education. In order to obtain contracts from PISD or from the City of Progreso, contractors were required to pay bribes to Vela and others. The Velas were able to extract bribes from contractors as a result of their political control of Progreso and PISD. As government officials, Michael and Omar had a level of control over local government. In addition, Jose Vela controlled the PISD School Board by rewarding board members who voted as he directed with bribe money. Through this control over the PISD Board, Jose Vela caused contracts with PISD to be awarded to contractors who were willing to pay him bribes and kickbacks in return. Omar and Michael Vela assisted their father by gathering bribe payments from contractors and delivering the payments to him. They were then given a portion of those monies. According to the plea agreement, during the timeframe of the conspiracy, the Velas required a local architect, his firm, a construction company, and the school board attorney to pay bribes and kickbacks to Vela and others in order to obtain work with PISD or the city of Progreso. In total, Jose, Omar and Michael extracted more than $300,000 in bribe payments. In a separate but related case, Orlando Vela entered a guilty plea to a criminal information charging him with theft from a program receiving federal funds. He is employed by PISD as a risk manager. In this role, he is responsible for directing and managing the school district’s risk management, loss control, and safety programs. On May 11, 2012, Orlando Vela formed a company called Borderline Office Supplies, which purported to be in the business of supplying office and janitorial products to school districts. Between May 2012 and March 2013, Orlando Vela submitted invoices to PISD for products that Borderline did not actually supply to PISD. The business bank account showed no purchases of the products that it claimed to have resold to PISD. The payments on the fraudulent invoices were approved by PISD’s business manager, Orlando Vela’s wife, and totaled $12,874.42. On August 12, 2013, Orlando Vela received a subpoena requesting documents related to his business’s alleged purchases of products and subsequent sales to PISD. In response, he provided invoices from a company in Mexico that purported to show that Borderline had purchased the products in Mexico and resold to PISD. However, upon further investigation, agents learned those invoices were in fact fraudulent. U.S. District Judge David Hittner, who accepted the pleas today, has set sentencing for July 25, 2014. At that time, all face up to 10 years in federal prison for the bribery involving federal programs convictions. Jose and Michael Vela also face up to five years in federal prison for the conspiracy. All convictions also carry as possible punishment a maximum fine of $250,000. All were permitted to remain on bond pending their hearings. The investigation was conducted by the FBI. Assistant United States Attorney Robert S. Johnson is prosecuting the case.
corruption BATON ROUGE, LA—United States Attorney Walt Green announced today that Delrice J. Augustus, age 34, of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, has been charged in a bill of information with federal program fraud, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 666(a)(1)(A). Augustus is the director of the Bureau of Auditing and Compliance Services for the Louisiana Department of Children and Family Services (DCFS). He is currently on leave from his position. DCFS leadership has cooperated fully with the investigation. If convicted, Augustus faces up to 10 years’ imprisonment, a $250,000 fine, forfeiture of the proceeds from the offense, restitution, and up to three years of supervised release following a term of imprisonment. His initial appearance will be held on a date to be determined. The bill of information alleges that, during the period from 2010 through March 2014, while serving as audit director of a state agency receiving over a billion dollars annually in federal funds, Augustus fraudulently misused government purchasing cards to obtain items for personal use for himself and others, including an installed dishwasher; televisions; movies; cameras; wireless audio systems, such as Sonos and Jawbone; gaming devices, such as Xboxes, Wiis, and Leapsters; mobile devices, such as iPads, Kindle Fires, and an iPhone 5; Dyson vacuums; rental vehicles, hotel rooms; and fuel. The matter is being handled by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of Louisiana, the Louisiana State Police, the Louisiana Inspector General’s Office, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. A bill of information is an accusation by the U.S. Attorney’s Office. The defendant is presumed innocent until and unless adjudicated guilty at trial or through a guilty plea.
corruption CHICAGO—A clerk for the City of Chicago’s Department of Transportation (CDOT) was arrested today for allegedly embezzling more than $741,000 from fees that were paid for certain city permits. The defendant, Antionette Chenier, a city clerk since 1990, allegedly diverted the funds from checks that were written by companies that applied for and received city permits to block public ways with dumpsters or moving vans. Chenier, 50, of Homewood, was charged with embezzlement in a criminal complaint that was unsealed following her arrest this morning. She is scheduled to appear at 3 p.m. today before Magistrate Judge Sheila Finnegan in U.S. District Court. The arrest and charge follow an investigation by the Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation Division, and the City of Chicago Office of Inspector General. From 1993 through 2005, Chenier was assigned to CDOT, and from 2006 through 2008, she was assigned to the city’s Office of Emergency Management and Communication (OEMC) before being transferred back to CDOT. As a clerk working in CDOT’s City Hall permitting office, she was involved in processing the moving van and dumpster permit fees. The city charges a $25 daily fee for a residential moving van and between $50 and $200 (or higher) per dumpster, depending on the size, location, and length of time the dumpster will be on a city street. For several years, companies have been able to apply for permits through a website operated by CDOT. Although CDOT issues the permits and collects payment, the checks are often made payable to OEMC, which previously administered the permit process. According to the complaint affidavit, bank records show that Chenier opened a personal bank account in August 2008 and a business account at the same bank in March 2009 under the name “OEMC Chenier,” and she was the sole signatory on both accounts. Between August 2008 and January 2014, she allegedly deposited several hundred checks, totaling $741,299 and payable to OEMC and other city departments into her personal and business accounts. In January this year, bank officials noticed Chenier’s unusual banking activity and froze her business account, according to the affidavit. The arrest and complaint were announced by Zachary T. Fardon, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois; Robert J. Holley, Special Agent in Charge of the Chicago Office of the FBI; James C. Lee, Special Agent in Charge of the IRS Criminal Investigation Division in Chicago; and Chicago Inspector General Joseph Ferguson. Embezzlement carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. If convicted, the court must impose a reasonable sentence under federal statutes and the advisory United States Sentencing Guidelines. The government is being represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Block. A complaint contains merely charges and is not evidence of guilt. The defendant is presumed innocent and is entitled to a fair trial at which the government has the burden of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption CHICAGO—The former deputy police chief in south suburban Markham was sentenced today to the maximum of five years in federal prison after a judge ruled that he sexually assaulted a woman in police custody in 2010. The defendant, Tony D. Debois, pleaded guilty last September to lying to FBI agents in 2012 about having had sex in his office, but he contended at a lengthy sentencing hearing last month that the woman he had sex with was not the victim and the sex was consensual. “It is a case about lying about a rape that occurred under the most egregious circumstances that law enforcement could imagine,” Assistant U.S. Attorney April Perry argued today before the sentence was imposed by U.S. District Judge Joan Lefkow. “The seriousness should not be underestimated,” Judge Lefkow said, adding that she found Debois’ conduct “revolting.” Debois, 42, of Frankfort, was also placed on supervised release for three years following his sentence, which he was ordered to begin serving on June 10. Judge Lefkow ruled today that the government established that Debois raped the 21-year-old highly vulnerable victim by a “considerable” preponderance of the evidence presented at the hearing last month, including the victim’s testimony, which the judge said was corroborated by other factors. The victim and a man were arrested by Markham police officers on September 23, 2010, after the man was suspected of engaging in a counterfeit currency transaction. The victim, who had no prior contact with law enforcement, was handcuffed, taken to the Markham Police Department, and placed in a holding cell for about 30 minutes. One of the arresting officers then took her to Debois’ tactical office, where, according to Judge Lefkow’s ruling, “he insinuated she could escape further trouble if she engaged in sex with him.” The judge found that Debois’ conduct was rape and that he later obstructed justice to avoid punishment for the sexual assault. DeBois served as deputy chief in Markham between 2008 and 2011 and also served as the department’s head of internal affairs until 2011, when he became Markham’s inspector general until 2012. DeBois began his law enforcement career with the former Chicago Housing Authority Police Department in the 1990s, and he was a police officer in south suburban Harvey from 1999 to 2007, when he joined the Markham department. The sentence was announced by Zachary T. Fardon, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois, and Robert J. Holley, Special Agent in Charge of the Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. They thanked the Illinois State Police and the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office for their extensive cooperation in the investigation. The government was represented by Ms. Perry and Assistant U.S. Attorney Patrick Pope.
corruption ST. CROIX—A federal search warrant authorizing federal agents to search the Golden Grove Adult Correctional and Detention Facility (Golden Grove) in St. Croix for illegal contraband was executed last night, announced Ronald W. Sharpe, United States Attorney for the District of the Virgin Islands; Vito S. Guarino, Special Agent in Charge of the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) Caribbean Division; and Carlos Cases, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) San Juan Field Division. The search warrant authorized federal agents to search inmates’ cells and certain common areas such as the prison yard and workshop areas for illegal contraband, weapons, controlled substances, and cellbphones. Under federal and territorial law, it is illegal for inmates to possess such items. Federal inmates awaiting trial and those already sentenced and pending transfer to a federal correctional facility are held at Golden Grove. The search is part of a multi-year federal investigation involving the smuggling of illegal contraband into Golden Grove by correctional officers (COs), inmates, and others. According to the affidavit in support of the warrant, COs have been directly involved in the smuggling of contraband into the prison and are often paid by inmates to do so. The affidavit also states that numerous inmates regularly possess illegal contraband. The affidavit also details the methods used by COs and inmates to smuggle and hide contraband inside the prison. These methods include the use of cell phones by inmates to arrange for delivery of contraband to COs, the smuggling of contraband into the prison by COs using their personal belongings, and the concealment of contraband by inmates in their cells and other places in the prison. The affidavit also reveals the following: Between February 2012 and February 2014, 51 of approximately 350 prison cells at Golden Grove have been searched by the Bureau of Corrections. These searches have resulted in the seizure of marijuana; weapons such as shanks and knives; cell phones, telephone chargers, SIM cards (subscriber module); and cable boxes. Inmates are often “tipped off” by prison officials prior to searches. Since November 2012, there have been 11 stabbing incidents (one resulting in the death of an inmate), with the most recent stabbing incident occurring February 20, 2014. A cell phone was used by inmates to arrange a murder for hire plot against two COs. Cell phones were used by inmates to arrange the sale or purchase of contraband in the prison. Most inmates (approximately 90 percent) are in daily possession of some form of prison contraband. Despite the recent arrest of two COs for attempting to smuggle contraband into the prison, contraband continues to be smuggled into Golden Grove. U.S. Attorney Sharpe said a search warrant is an investigative tool used to collect evidence of criminal offenses and that the execution of the warrant at Golden Grove is part of an ongoing investigation. “The smuggling of contraband into Golden Grove is a serious offense that jeopardizes not just the inmates and corrections officers but the entire community,” said U.S. Attorney Sharpe. “Shanks, knives, and controlled substances pose an obvious danger to other inmates and correctional personnel,” stated Special Agent in Charge Guarino. “As the search warrant affidavit shows, cell phones in the hands of inmates also pose a serious threat to the security of the prison. They can be used to commit further crimes, run criminal organizations from inside prisons, intimidate witnesses, plot escapes, and facilitate drug trafficking inside the prison.” The investigation leading to today’s search warrant was led by the St. Croix DEA High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) Task Force, which includes officers from the Virgin Islands Police Department (VIPD), with assistance from the FBI. Assisting HIDTA in today’s search were agents from the FBI; the U.S. Marshals Service; Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives; Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation Division, U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Investigations (HSI), U.S. Customs and Border Protection, VIPD, and the Virgin Islands National Guard. There were no arrests in connection with today’s search. The search warrants and a redacted version of the affidavit in support of the search warrants have been unsealed today. The results of the search will be made public at a later date.
corruption DALLAS—Lawrence Hart, 37, appeared today before U.S. Magistrate Judge Renée Harris Toliver and pleaded guilty to a felony and misdemeanor Information charging various offenses stemming from his role as a caseworker for an outreach program that is managed by the city of Dallas’s Housing Department. The announcement was made today by U.S. Attorney Sarah R. Saldaña of the Northern District of Texas. Specifically, Hart pleaded guilty to one count of witness tampering, one count of making a false statement to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), and one count of deprivation of rights under color of law. He faces a maximum statutory sentence of 20 years in federal prison and a $250,000 fine for the witness tampering count and a maximum statutory sentence of one year in federal prison and a $100,000 fine for the false statement count and for the deprivation of rights count. He will remain on bond pending sentencing, set for July 14, 2014, by U.S. District Judge David C. Godbey. According to documents filed in the case, in 2012 and 2013, Hart was a caseworker for Project Reconnect, a HUD-funded outreach program managed by the city of Dallas’s Housing Department. Project Reconnect provides re-entry case management and community referrals to help non-violent offenders on parole settle back into the Dallas community. One of the main components of Project Reconnect is to provide housing to eligible individuals. As the program was being applied at the time, to be eligible for Project Reconnect, an individual must reside in Dallas, have felony conviction, be 18 years or older, be currently on parole or probation, and meet HUD low- to moderate-income guidelines. Hart admitted that in July 2012, he arranged for “Person A” to sign a lease for an apartment in Carrollton, under the Project Reconnect program, even though Person A did not qualify for the program at that time. The apartment’s rent was $980 per month, and Project Reconnect was responsible for $975 of that amount, and Person A was responsible for $5 per month. Hart admitted that while he worked for the city of Dallas’s Housing Authority, he was in fact the sole occupant of that apartment, and Person A never resided there. Hart further admitted that he submitted documentation to HUD reflecting that Person A was the sole occupant. When HUD, the Dallas Police Department (DPD) and the FBI began investigating fraudulent activity related to Project Reconnect, they interviewed Hart about his involvement in Project Reconnect and his potential criminal activity. After that interview, Hart contacted Person A and instructed Person A to lie to a DPD detective and FBI special agent by telling them that Person A lived in the Carrollton apartment. In late 2012, according to the factual resume filed in the case, Hart met “Person B” and fast-tracked Person B through the Project Reconnect program. While Person B was qualified for the program, Hart propositioned her for sex and expedited her placement in an apartment because she agreed to have sex with him. In January 2013, Person B ended her intimate relationship with Hart. Acting under color of law, Hart removed her from the HUD-subsidized apartment, wilfully depriving her of the right to be free from discrimination in the terms, condition, and privileges of rental of a dwelling because of her sex. The DPD, HUD, and FBI investigated the case. Assistant U.S. Attorney Errin Martin is prosecuting.
corruption NEWARK—An internal affairs officer of the Miami-Dade Police Department was arrested this morning in Miami Gardens, Florida, and charged with allegedly aiding a narcotics trafficking organization—distributing cocaine from the Dominican Republic in New Jersey and elsewhere—by orchestrating a murder-for-hire plot; providing firearms and sensitive law enforcement information; and facilitating the transport of drug proceeds, New Jersey U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Ralph Mata, 45, a/k/a “the Milk Man,” of Broward County, Florida—a lieutenant with the Miami-Dade Police Department, Internal Affairs—is charged by federal criminal complaint with one count each of aiding and abetting a conspiracy to distribute cocaine; conspiring to distribute cocaine; and engaging in monetary transactions in property derived from specified unlawful activity—specifically, drug proceeds. Mata is scheduled to appear tomorrow, April 9, 2014, before U.S. Magistrate Judge Alicia M. Otazo-Reyes in federal court in the Southern District of Florida. According to the complaint unsealed today: After rival drug dealers threatened to kill members of the drug trafficking organization, or DTO, with which Mata conspired, Mata and members of the DTO discussed a murder plot. Mata stated that his contacts—assassins—would wear uniforms and badges to make it appear as though the two targets of the plot were being pulled over by law enforcement before shooting them. Mata arranged to pay two assassins $150,000 per target. Ultimately, the DTO decided not to move forward with the murder plot, but Mata still received a payment for setting up the meetings. Mata purchased several firearms to provide protection and security to the DTO members located in the Dominican Republic, which he transported on two separate trips from Miami to the Dominican Republic between October 5, 2012 and January 17, 2013. A number of these firearms have been recovered by law enforcement. Mata also helped to transport narcotics proceeds for the DTO in exchange for thousands of dollars in cash and a Rolex watch valued at approximately $10,000. Mata also used sources of information available to him as a law enforcement officer to find out information about the seizure of $419,000 in narcotics proceeds from a Bergen County, New Jersey residence, which members of the DTO suspected had been stolen by another member but were in fact seized by law enforcement. The narcotics charges each carry a statutory mandatory minimum penalty of 10 years in prison and a maximum potential penalty of life in prison and a $10 million fine. The transaction involving drug proceeds charge carries a maximum potential penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI’s Garret Mountain Resident Office, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford in Newark; the DEA’s Paterson Post of Duty under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Carl J. Kotowski; IRS-Criminal Investigation, Newark Field Office, under the Acting Special Agent in Charge Jonathan D. Larsen; and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s Homeland Security Investigations, New York, under the direction of James T. Hayes Jr. He also thanked the Miami FBI, Miami-Dade Police Department, and Miami-Area Corruption Task Force for their assistance with the arrest. The investigation is ongoing. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Mary Toscano of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division, José Almonte of the Criminal Division, and Barbara Ward and Marion Percell, Chief of the office’s Asset Forfeiture Unit. The charges and allegations contained in the complaint are merely accusations, and the defendant is considered innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption NEWARK—An internal affairs officer of the Miami-Dade Police Department was arrested this morning in Miami Gardens, Florida, and charged with allegedly aiding a narcotics trafficking organization—distributing cocaine from the Dominican Republic in New Jersey and elsewhere—by orchestrating a murder-for-hire plot; providing firearms and sensitive law enforcement information; and facilitating the transport of drug proceeds, New Jersey U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Ralph Mata, 45, a/k/a “the Milk Man,” of Broward County, Florida—a lieutenant with the Miami-Dade Police Department, Internal Affairs—is charged by federal criminal complaint with one count each of aiding and abetting a conspiracy to distribute cocaine; conspiring to distribute cocaine; and engaging in monetary transactions in property derived from specified unlawful activity—specifically, drug proceeds. Mata is scheduled to appear tomorrow, April 9, 2014, before U.S. Magistrate Judge Alicia M. Otazo-Reyes in federal court in the Southern District of Florida. According to the complaint unsealed today: After rival drug dealers threatened to kill members of the drug trafficking organization, or DTO, with which Mata conspired, Mata and members of the DTO discussed a murder plot. Mata stated that his contacts—assassins—would wear uniforms and badges to make it appear as though the two targets of the plot were being pulled over by law enforcement before shooting them. Mata arranged to pay two assassins $150,000 per target. Ultimately, the DTO decided not to move forward with the murder plot, but Mata still received a payment for setting up the meetings. Mata purchased several firearms to provide protection and security to the DTO members located in the Dominican Republic, which he transported on two separate trips from Miami to the Dominican Republic between October 5, 2012 and January 17, 2013. A number of these firearms have been recovered by law enforcement. Mata also helped to transport narcotics proceeds for the DTO in exchange for thousands of dollars in cash and a Rolex watch valued at approximately $10,000. Mata also used sources of information available to him as a law enforcement officer to find out information about the seizure of $419,000 in narcotics proceeds from a Bergen County, New Jersey residence, which members of the DTO suspected had been stolen by another member but were in fact seized by law enforcement. The narcotics charges each carry a statutory mandatory minimum penalty of 10 years in prison and a maximum potential penalty of life in prison and a $10 million fine. The transaction involving drug proceeds charge carries a maximum potential penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI’s Garret Mountain Resident Office, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford in Newark; the DEA’s Paterson Post of Duty under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Carl J. Kotowski; IRS-Criminal Investigation, Newark Field Office, under the Acting Special Agent in Charge Jonathan D. Larsen; and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s Homeland Security Investigations, New York, under the direction of James T. Hayes Jr. He also thanked the Miami FBI, Miami-Dade Police Department, and Miami-Area Corruption Task Force for their assistance with the arrest. The investigation is ongoing. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Mary Toscano of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division, José Almonte of the Criminal Division, and Barbara Ward and Marion Percell, Chief of the office’s Asset Forfeiture Unit. The charges and allegations contained in the complaint are merely accusations, and the defendant is considered innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption SAN FRANCISCO—A federal grand jury returned an indictment yesterday charging 29 defendants with firearms trafficking, money laundering, murder-for-hire, drug distribution, trafficking in contraband cigarettes, and honest services fraud, announced U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag, FBI Special Agent in Charge David J. Johnson, and Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation Special Agent in Charge José M. Martinez. The indictment follows the March 26, 2014 arrests authorized by criminal complaint. The defendants are charged in the indictment as follows: Defendant Charges Kwok Cheung CHOW, a/k/a Raymond CHOW, a/k/a Shrimp Boy Money Laundering (18 USC § 1956), Conspiracy to Traffic Contraband Cigarettes (18 USC §§ 371, 2342, 2344), Conspiracy to Transport and Receive Stolen Property in Interstate Commerce (18 USC §§ 371, 2314, and 2315) Leland YEE Honest Services Conspiracy (18 USC §1349), Wire Fraud (18 USC §§ 1343, 1346), Conspiracy to Deal in Firearms and Import Firearms (18 USC §§ 371, 922(a), 922(l)) George NIEH, a/k/a Heng Nieh, a/k/a Ah Fei Money Laundering (18 USC 1956), Unlicensed Firearms Dealing (18 USC § 922(a)), Felon in Possession of Firearm (18 USC § 922(g)), Conspiracy to Traffic Contraband Cigarettes (18 USC §§ 371, 2342, 2344), Conspiracy to Transport and Receive Stolen Property in Interstate Commerce (18 USC §§ 371, 2314, and 2315), Narcotics Conspiracy (21 USC § 846) Keith JACKSON Wire Fraud (18 USC §§ 1343, 1346), Engaging in Business of Dealing in Firearms (18 USC § 922(a)), Narcotics Conspiracy (21 USC § 846), Murder for Hire (18 USC § 1958), Conspiracy to Deal in Firearms and Import Firearms (18 USC §§ 371, 922(a), 922(l)) Brandon JACKSON Narcotics Conspiracy (21 USC § 846), Unlicensed Firearms Dealing (18 USC § 922(a)), Murder for Hire (18 USC §1958) Marlon SULLIVAN Narcotics Conspiracy (21 USC § 846), Unlicensed Firearms Dealing (18 USC § 922(a)), Murder for Hire (18 USC § 1958) Rinn ROEUN Unlicensed Firearms Dealing (18 USC § 922(a)), Murder for Hire (18 USC § 1958) Alan CHIU, a/k/a Alan Shiu Money Laundering (18 USC § 1956) Kevin SIU Money Laundering (18 USC § 1956) Kongphet CHANTHAVONG, a/k/a “Joe,” a/k/a “Fat Joe” Narcotics Conspiracy (21 USC § 846), Money Laundering (18 USC § 1956), Felon in Possession of a Firearm (18 USC § 922(g)), Possession of Narcotics with Intent to Distribute (21 USC § 841), Possession of a Firearm in Furtherance of a Drug Trafficking Crime (18 USC § 924(c)) Michael MEI Possession of Narcotics with Intent to Distribute (21 USC § 846) Andy LI Money Laundering (18 USC § 1956), Narcotics Conspiracy (21 USC 846), Unlicensed Firearms Dealing (18 USC § 922(a)), Felon in Possession of Firearm (18 USC § 922(g)) Leslie YUN Money Laundering (18 USC § 1956), Conspiracy to Traffic in Stolen and Contraband Cigarettes (18 USC §§ 371, 2315, 2342, 2344) James PAU Money Laundering (18 USC § 1956), Conspiracy to Traffic in Stolen and Contraband Cigarettes (18 USC §§ 371, 2315, 2342, 2344) Jane LIANG Conspiracy to Transport and Receive Stolen Property (18 USC §§ 371, 2315) Tina LIANG Conspiracy to Transport and Receive Stolen Property (18 USC §§ 371, 2315), Narcotics Conspiracy (21 USC § 846) Brian TILTON Conspiracy to Transport and Receive Stolen Property (18 USC §§ 371, 2315), Narcotics Conspiracy (21 USC § 846) Ming MA Conspiracy to Receive Stolen Property (18 USC §§ 371, 2315) Hon SO Conspiracy to Receive Stolen Property (18 USC §§ 371, 2315) Norge MASTRANGELO Money Laundering (18 USC §1956) Albert NHINGSAVATH Money Laundering (18 USC § 1956) Serge GEE Money Laundering (18 USC § 1956) Xi Ling LIANG, a/k/a Elaine LIANG Money Laundering (18 USC § 1956) Gary CHEN Money Laundering (18 USC § 1956) Anthony LAI Money Laundering (18 USC § 1956) Tong ZHANG Conspiracy to Traffic Contraband Cigarettes (18 USC §§ 371, 2342, 2344) Zhanghao WU Conspiracy to Traffic Contraband Cigarettes (18 USC §§ 371, 2342, 2344) Barry Blackwell HOUSE Dealing Firearms without a License (18 USC § 922(a)), Possession of Firearm by a Felon (18 USC § 922(g)(1)) WILSON SY LIM, a/k/a “Dr. Lim” Conspiracy to Traffic in Firearms Without a License, and to Illegally Import Firearms, in violation of (18 USC §§ 371, 922(a)(1)) The maximum penalties for the violations are as follows: 18 U.S.C. § 1956(a)(1) 20 years in prison Three years’ supervised release $500,000 fine $100 special assessment 18 U.S.C. § 1956(a)(3) 20 years in prison Three years’ supervised release $500,000 fine $100 special assessment 18 U.S.C. § § 371, 2314, 2315 Five years in prison Three years’ supervised release $250,000 fine $100 special assessment 18 U.S.C. § § 371, 2315, 2342(a), 2344 Five years in prison Three years’ supervised release $250,000 fine $100 special assessment 18 U.S.C. § 922(a)(1) Five years in prison Three years’ supervised release $250,000 fine $100 special assessment 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1) 10 years in prison Three years’ supervised release $250,000 fine $100 special assessment 18 U.S.C. §§ 371, 922(a)(1), 922(l) Five years in prison Three years’ supervised release $250,000 fine $100 special assessment 18 U.S.C. § 924(c) From five years to life Five years’ supervised release $250,000 fine $100 special assessment 18 U.S.C. § 1958 10 years in prison Three years’ supervised release $250,000 fine $100 special assessment 18 U.S.C. § § 1343, 1346, 1349 20 years in prison Three years’ supervised release $250,000 fine $100 special assessment 21 U.S.C. § 841 From five years to forty years in prison Four years’ supervised release $5 million fine $100 special assessment 21 U.S.C. § 841, 846 Five years in prison, with five or ten year mandatory minimum in some instances Three to five years’ supervised release $250,000 to $10 million fine $100 special assessment An indictment merely alleges that crimes have been committed, and all defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. If convicted, the defendants are subject to the maximum penalties stated above. However, any sentence following conviction would be imposed by the court only after consideration of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and the federal statute governing the imposition of a sentence, 18 U.S.C. § 3553. William Frentzen, Susan Badger, and Waqar Hasib are the Assistant U.S. Attorneys who are prosecuting the case. The prosecution is the result of a five-year investigation by the FBI, Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigations Division, San Francisco Police Department, Oakland Police Department, and Antioch Police Department.
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut; Patricia M. Ferrick, Special Agent in Charge of the New Haven Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and Ronald G. Gardella, Special Agent in Charge, Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General, New York Field Office, today announced that a federal grand jury in New Haven returned an indictment today charging Kisha Perkins, a case manager at the Federal Correctional Institution in Danbury (FCI Danbury) for her role in a scheme to solicit and collect cash bribes from FCI Danbury inmates in exchange for a recommendation that inmates be released early to “halfway houses.” The indictment charges Perkins, 42, of Waterbury, with one count of paying a bribe to a public official and one count of acceptance of a bribe by a public official. Perkins was arrested on a federal criminal complaint on March 14, 2014. As alleged in the criminal complaint, in June 2013, Perkins approached another FCI Danbury employee about an opportunity to participate in a scheme to solicit a cash bribe from an inmate at FCI Danbury in exchange for the inmate’s early release to a halfway house. At that time, Perkins held the job title of unit counselor at FCI Danbury and did not have administrative authority to recommend inmates for early release. Perkins explained that the inmate and the inmate’s husband were willing to pay $20,000 and that Perkins’ co-worker, who would receive half the money, was needed to complete the scheme because the co-worker had the administrative ability to recommend inmates for early release. Perkins’ co-worker declined to participate in the scheme, reported the incident to law enforcement, and agreed to cooperate in the investigation, which included the use of numerous consensually recorded conversations. In July 2013, Perkins’ co-worker told Perkins that he/she had changed his/her mind and wanted to participate in the scheme. It is alleged that Perkins informed her co-worker that a scheme involving the inmate who had been previously identified was no longer feasible. As the investigation continued, in February 2014, Perkins’ co-worker identified a second inmate as a possible candidate for the bribe scheme. Is it alleged that Perkins agreed to participate, and, after extensive planning, on March 8, 2014, Perkins and her co-worker traveled to a commuter lot off Exit 28 on Interstate 84 to pick up a partial bribe payment of $5,000 in cash in a fast food bag that, as Perkins believed, was to be dropped off by an acquaintance of the inmate. If convicted, Perkins faces a maximum term of imprisonment of 15 years on each count. After her arrest on March 14, Perkins was released on a $100,000 bond. Her bond was revoked on March 28, and she is currently detained. An arraignment and detention hearing is scheduled for April 7 in New Haven. U.S. Attorney Daly stressed that an indictment is not evidence of guilt. Charges are only allegations, and each defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. This matter is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Department of Justice Office of Inspector General. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Susan Wines.
corruption GREENBELT, MD—U.S. District Judge Peter J. Messitte sentenced former Prince George’s County Police Officer Sinisa Simic, age 30, of Woodbridge, Virginia, today to 10 years in prison, followed by four years of supervised release, for an extortion conspiracy under color of official right arising from a scheme involving the transport and distribution of untaxed cigarettes; conspiracy to distribute cocaine; and possession and transfer of a firearm in furtherance of a drug trafficking crime and a crime of violence. Judge Messitte also ordered Simic to forfeit $1,137,898. The sentence was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and Special Agent in Charge Thomas J. Kelly of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation, Washington, D.C. Field Office. According to Simic’s plea agreement, between July 2009 and January 2010, Simic participated in a conspiracy to transport and distribute untaxed cigarettes in Maryland, Virginia, and elsewhere. As part of the conspiracy, Simic used his official authority as a Prince George’s County police officer to ensure the safe transport and distribution of the untaxed cigarettes in exchange for cash payments from a source and an undercover agent working with the FBI. During November 2009, law enforcement intercepted conversations on Simic’s cellular phone that indicated that Simic and his co-conspirator, Mirza Kunjundzic, both wanted Kunjundzic to be armed while they were protecting the contraband cigarettes during transportation and distribution. Simic subsequently obtained a 50-caliber handgun requested by Kunjundzic, which was recovered at Simic’s residence at the time of his arrest, along with a 9mm handgun. On December 2, 2009, Simic and Kunjundzic transported 80 cases of contraband cigarettes to New Jersey in exchange for $3,400 paid by the undercover agent. From July 2009 through January 2010, Simic and Kunjundzic also distributed cocaine to the undercover agent and source. For example, on October 7, 2009, Simic and Kunjundzic delivered 114.5 grams of cocaine to the undercover agent, who paid them $6,520 for the cocaine and to transport and protect a delivery of contraband cigarettes. A portion of the cocaine was secreted in the shipment of contraband cigarettes. Similarly, on October 22, 2009, Simic and Kunjundzic delivered 244.3 grams of cocaine to the undercover agent, and on and November 12, 2009, they delivered 268.2 grams of cocaine, for which they were paid $13,800 and $4,000, respectively, for the cocaine and to transport contraband cigarettes. Simic was armed during each of the transactions. From September 9, 2009 through at least January 26, 2010, Simic and Kunjundzic provided protection for eight shipments of contraband containing 575.5 master cases of cigarettes and were paid a total of $52,120, including the payments for the cocaine. The tax loss attributable to Simic relating to the illegal cigarette trafficking is $1,356,358, based on losses of $819,600 to Maryland, $122,940 to Virginia, and $413,818 to the federal government. On February 26, 2014, Mirza Kunjundzic, age 33, of Woodbridge, Virginia, was sentenced to 15 years in prison after pleading guilty to conspiracy to distribute and possess with intent to distribute controlled substances and possession of a firearm in furtherance of a drug trafficking crime. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI and IRS for their work in these investigations and expressed his appreciation to Prince George’s County Police Chief Mark A. Magaw for the assistance that he and his department provided. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant United States Attorneys James A. Crowell, IV, A. David Copperthite, and Sujit Raman, who prosecuted the case.
corruption MCALLEN, TX—Omar Leonel Vela, 36, has entered a plea of guilty to conspiracy and bribery concerning programs receiving federal funds, announced United States Attorney Kenneth Magidson. Vela, the mayor of Progreso, was originally charged along with several others based on their alleged participation in a scheme to create a “pay to play” public contracting system in Progreso. Today, Vela admitted he participated in the scheme from 2004 through 2013. The school district for Progreso is the Progreso Independent School District (PISD). From 2004 through 2013, PISD received more than $1 million per year in federal program grants and funds from the U.S. Department of Education. In order to obtain contracts from PISD or from the city of Progreso, contractors were required to pay bribes to Vela and others. Vela and others were able to extract bribes from contractors as a result of their political control of Progreso and PISD. Vela was a government official, giving him a level of control over local government. Vela and others facilitated the scheme by gathering bribe payments from contractors and delivering the payments, of which he would then receive a portion. According to the plea agreement, during the timeframe of the conspiracy, Vela and others required a local architect, his firm, a construction company, and the school board attorney to pay bribes and kickbacks to Vela and others in order to obtain work with PISD or the city of Progreso. In total, Vela and others extracted more than $300,000 in bribe payments. In addition, from April 2009 to December 2012, Vela instructed the owner of a plumbing and electrical supply company to provide fraudulent invoices to PISD and the city of Progreso for products they did not provide. When the invoices were paid, the owner returned the funds to Vela, resulting in more than $14,000 in kickbacks. The charges against the others in this case remain pending. They are presumed innocent unless and until convicted through due process of law. U.S. District Judge David Hittner, who accepted the pleas today, has set sentencing for July 25, 2014. At that time, Vela faces up to five years in federal prison for the conspiracy and another possible 10 years for the bribery involving federal programs conviction. Both convictions carry as possible punishment a maximum fine of $250,000. He was permitted to remain on bond pending that hearing. The investigation was conducted by the FBI. Assistant United States Attorney Robert S. Johnson is prosecuting the case.
corruption MONROE, LA—United States Attorney Stephanie A. Finley announced today that former East Carroll Parish Sheriff Mark Wayne Shumate, 52, of Lake Providence, Louisiana, pleaded guilty Monday before U.S. Magistrate Judge Karen L. Hayes to aiding and abetting a felon in the possession of a firearm. According to evidence presented at the guilty plea, Shumate and a convicted felon went hunting January 8, 2014. Shumate knew the person accompanying him was barred from possessing and firing a firearm because of the companion’s status as a convicted felon. Shumate faces up to 10 years in prison, one to three years of supervised release, and a $250,000 fine for one count of aiding and abetting a felon in possession of a firearm. Sentencing is set for July 7, 2014. The FBI and ATF conducted the investigation. Assistant U.S. Attorney Joseph G. Jarzabek is prosecuting the case.
corruption BOWLING GREEN, KY—A former Taylor County, Kentucky deputy sheriff pleaded guilty today before Chief Judge Joseph H. McKinley, Jr. to charges of distributing anabolic steroids, a Schedule III controlled substance, announced David J. Hale, United States Attorney for the Western District of Kentucky. William Allen Rice, age 38, of Campbellsville, pleaded guilty to all charges in a three-count federal indictment. According to the plea agreement, Rice sold Schedule III controlled substances on three separate occasions between May 17, 2013 and August 10, 2013. On May 17, 2013, the defendant sold a bottle of boldenone undecylenate, a Schedule III non-narcotic, to another individual for $150. On August 8, 2013, the defendant sold a bottle of nandrolone decanoate, a Schedule III non-narcotic, to another individual for $150. On August 22, 2013, the defendant sold ten bottles of testosterone enanthate from Lightning Pharmaceuticals in Cambridge, Massachusetts, an anabolic steroid and a Schedule III non-narcotic, to another individual for $950. Rice was observed driving his assigned Taylor County Sheriff’s Office vehicle to prearranged meeting locations and wore his Taylor County Sheriff’s Office uniform and a pistol on his hip during one transaction with a confidential human source. Rice was charged in a criminal complaint on October 1, 2013, and subsequently charged by federal grand jury indictment on October 16, 2013. The charges exposed Rice to a combined maximum term of imprisonment of 30 years, a combined maximum fine of $1,500,000, and a two-year term of supervised release. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Amanda E. Gregory and was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and Kentucky State Police.
corruption SPRINGFIELD, MO—Tammy Dickinson, United States Attorney for the Western District of Missouri, announced today that a former correctional officer at the U.S. Medical Center for Federal Prisoners in Springfield, Missouri, has been sentenced in federal court for hiring someone to kill his wife’s ex-husband. Robert W. Jones, 43, of Springfield, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Beth Phillips on Monday, March 31, 2014, to six years in federal prison without parole. On November 13, 2013, Jones pleaded guilty to using a telephone with the intent that a murder be committed for payment. According to court documents, Jones contacted an inmate at the federal medical center while he was employed as a correctional officer. Jones asked him to assist in hiring a hitman to murder his wife’s ex-husband (referred to as “John Doe” in public court documents). Jones was aware that the inmate had been in a leadership position in a drug trafficking organization, an affidavit says, and had connections to individuals who could carry out such a request. The inmate, who was cooperating with investigators, met with Jones for 10 to 15 private conversations in March and April 2012. Jones offered to give the inmate a cell phone to call a hitman, avoiding the possibility of the conversation being recorded if the call were placed on a landline at the prison. As a part of a routine quarterly personnel shift at the medical center, Jones was moved to a different unit and was therefore unable to meet with the inmate for a period of time. The inmate later reestablished contact with Jones after being moved to a cell in the same unit that Jones was assigned. They met again on June 21, 2012, the first day they were in the unit at the same time. They had multiple meetings during July 2012, with Jones standing outside the inmate’s jail cell and speaking to him through an opening in the door. All the meetings were captured on the unit’s surveillance system. During one of those meetings, Jones told the inmate that his wife had left him and took all their belongings except the couch, television, and bills, and he blamed John Doe for his wife’s departure. An undercover FBI agent posed as a hitman named Chuey, and the inmate gave Jones a telephone number to contact Chuey. Jones contacted Chuey and made arrangements to meet in the food court located inside the Battlefield Mall in Springfield. At that meeting, Jones told the undercover agent he would pay him $1,500 to murder John Doe and provided the undercover agent with a photograph of John Doe, his home address, and $1,500 in cash. At the conclusion of the meeting, Jones was arrested. This case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney James J. Kelleher. It was investigated by the U.S. Medical Center for Federal Prisoners Special Investigative Support; the FBI; and the Department of Justice, Office of the Inspector General. This news release, as well as additional information about the office of the United States Attorney for the Western District of Missouri, is available online at http://www.justice.gov/usao/mow/index.html.
corruption TAMPA—United States Attorney A. Lee Bentley, III announces that the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit today affirmed the convictions and sentence of former Hillsborough County Commissioner Kevin White for his role in a bribery scheme. White had been convicted after a jury trial of bribery, mail fraud, wire fraud, and conspiracy to commit both fraud and bribery. In March 2012, he was sentenced to a total of three years’ imprisonment. In 2009 and 2010, while White was a Hillsborough County Commissioner, he also served as chairman of the county’s Public Transportation Commission, which was responsible for certifying towing companies to work for county law-enforcement agencies. The evidence at trial showed that White had received cash bribes from persons who wanted the commission to certify their towing companies and help them get hired by local law-enforcement agencies. White’s father, Gerald White, also participated in the scheme; he urged the towing companies to pay bribes, insisting that White could help them out if they helped out the Whites. Unbeknownst to the Whites, the men they met with were an FBI informant and an undercover FBI special agent. In a series of meetings, many of which were recorded, both White and Gerald White received thousands of dollars in cash bribes from the informant and from the agent. In addition to the cash bribes, Gerald White demanded and received from the informant a Lincoln Navigator SUV. At Kevin White’s trial, the jury found White guilty of seven counts. White’s father (Gerald) did not go to trial, as he had died in the meantime. White appealed his convictions and his sentence to the Court of Appeals in Atlanta. He argued that the evidence at trial had been insufficient to support his convictions because the Public Transportation Commission receives no federal funds and the federal bribery statute applies only to agents of agencies that receive at least $10,000 in federal funds annually. The Court of Appeals rejected White’s argument, pointing out that White also was acting as an agent of the Hillsborough County Commission when he solicited and took the bribes, and Hillsborough County receives millions of dollars in federal funds each year. As the court explained, “Ample evidence supports White’s convictions for bribery and conspiracy to bribe.” White also challenged his three-year sentence, arguing that the sentencing court should not have taken into account the SUV that his father had received and should not have increased his sentence based on his status as an elected public official. The Court of Appeals rejected those arguments as well and upheld White’s three-year sentence. This appeal was handled by Assistant United States Attorney David Rhodes, Chief of the Office’s Appellate Division.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, and George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office, announce that George Brown, 50, of Hollywood, was sentenced to 30 months in prison and one year of supervised release and was ordered to forfeit $13,000. Brown previously pled guilty in January 2014 to a one-count information charging him with accepting bribes in connection with programs receiving federal funds, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 666. The defendant was given until May 13, 2014, to surrender to the United States Bureau of Prisons. According to documents filed in court, Brown was the Roadway Lighting Coordinator for the Department of Public Works (Public Works) in Miami-Dade County. In this capacity, Brown was responsible for, among other things, overseeing the installation and/or maintenance of more than 24,000 street lights in the county’s roadway system. In 2011, a lighting contractor offered to provide Brown with “rewards” in exchange for Public Works’ purchase of the contractor’s lighting products. Brown agreed and subsequently accepted more than $13,000 in bribes from the contractor in 2011 and 2012. The bribes included appliances, computer equipment, and other merchandise, all paid for by the contractor. Among the merchandise that Brown received from the contractor was a 2.5 ton air conditioning unit, a Samsung stainless steel refrigerator, and a KitchenAid built-in single electric convection oven. The merchandise was either shipped directly to Brown’s home address or picked up by Brown at the contractor’s business in Miami. During the investigation, the contractor began to cooperate with law enforcement and recorded the conversations with Brown. In one recorded conversation, Brown assured the contractor that no one else knew about their arrangement. In another recorded conversation, the two discussed delivery to Brown of certain merchandise costing approximately $2,600 in exchange for Brown’s assistance on a Public Works’ project on 27th Avenue in Miami. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeffrey N. Kaplan. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at http://www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls.
corruption FRESNO, CA—A federal grand jury returned a five-count superseding indictment today against Ramon Cano, 28, a resident of Bakersfield, and Gerardo Alvarez-Montanez, 32, an inmate at the Taft Federal Correctional Facility, charging them with conspiracy to provide and possess contraband in prison and with various substantive counts, including distribution and attempted distribution of a controlled substance and bribery of a public official. United States Attorney Benjamin B. Wagner announced. According to court documents, Cano, a full-time contract correctional officer employed at the Taft Federal Correctional Facility, was involved in smuggling heroin, methamphetamine, and other items of contraband, including cash and cell phones, to Alvarez-Montanez in return for payments of cash. This case was the product of an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Office of the Inspector General U.S. Department of Justice. Assistant United States Attorney Brian K. Delaney is prosecuting the case. If convicted, Cano and Alvarez face a maximum statutory penalty of 40 years in prison and a $5,000,000 fine. Any sentence, however, would be determined at the discretion of the court after consideration of any applicable statutory factors and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, which take into account a number of variables. The charges are only allegations; the defendant is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption FRESNO, CA—A federal grand jury returned a four-count indictment today against Derik Carson Kumagai, 40, resident of Clovis, California, and Saykham Somphoune, a/k/a, “Oat,” 40, resident of Fresno, California, charging them with conspiracy, bribery, and extortion, United States Attorney Benjamin B. Wagner announced. According to court documents, detective Kumagai accepted a $20,000 bribe from an individual who was under investigation for marijuana trafficking. In return for the bribe payment, Kumagai and co-conspirator Somphoune (who is not a law enforcement officer) promised the person under investigation that he would be signed up as a confidential informant for the Fresno Police Department. On November 6, 2013, the person under investigation paid Kumagai approximately $20,000 cash. A few hours later, the person under investigation completed purported documents regarding work as a confidential informant for the Fresno Police Department. This case was the product of an investigation by the Drug Enforcement Administration, Federal Bureau of Investigation, and Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation Division. The Department of Homeland Security-Homeland Security Investigations and the United States Postal Inspection Service also provided investigative assistance in this case. Assistant United States Attorneys Grant B. Rabenn and Kevin P. Rooney are prosecuting the case. Derik Kumagai was released from pretrial custody on March 19, 2014. Saykham Somphoune is currently detained as a flight risk. If convicted of conspiracy, the defendants face a maximum statutory penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. If convicted of bribery, they face a maximum statutory penalty of 10 years in prison and a $500,000 fine. If convicted of extortion or conspiracy to commit extortion, they face a maximum statutory penalty of 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Any sentence, however, would be determined at the discretion of the court after consideration of any applicable statutory factors and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, which take into account a number of variables. The charges are only allegations; the defendants are presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption ATLANTA—Darrell Mathis has been sentenced to five years in federal prison for possessing a firearm during a drug transaction. “Mathis abandoned his oath as a deputy sheriff and chose the life of a drug dealer,” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. “His decision to violate the law also violated the trust the public places in law enforcement. Mathis will have the next five years in prison to consider his conduct.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated, “Today’s sentencing of former Deputy Mathis should serve notice that, while noting that the vast majority of those who serve within the criminal justice system are faithful to their oaths, the FBI will make those individuals who do violate their sworn oaths as law enforcement officers a priority for investigation and prosecution.” According to United States Attorney Yates, the charges, and other information presented in court, in April 2013, it came to the attention of the FBI that Darrell Mathis, a deputy sheriff with the Newton County Sheriff’s Office, was distributing marijuana. From May through September 2013, Mathis sold various quantities of marijuana to a confidential source who was working with the FBI, as well as to an undercover FBI agent. On at least two occasions, Mathis sold marijuana from his marked patrol vehicle while wearing his Newton County Sheriff’s Office uniform. On August 8, 2013, Mathis sold one pound of marijuana to an undercover FBI agent. Following that sale, Mathis and the undercover FBI agent went to meet with another undercover FBI agent to discuss the sale of additional quantities of marijuana. Mathis brought his NCSO badge and his firearm to the meeting. Mathis told the undercover agent that he was bringing his firearm to the meeting “just in case.” During the meeting, Mathis told the second undercover FBI agent, whom Mathis believed to be a marijuana and cocaine trafficker, that he was a police officer, pulled out his badge, and stated, “Don’t worry, I’m on your side.” Mathis was arrested on September 19, 2013, when he met with the undercover FBI agent while in possession of one pound of marijuana. Mathis, 41, of Lithonia, Georgia, has been sentenced to five years in prison to be followed by two years of supervised release. Mathis was convicted on the charge on December 6, 2013, after he pleaded guilty. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Jamie L. Mickelson prosecuted the case. The U.S. Attorney’s Office in Atlanta recommends parents and children learn about the dangers of drugs at www.justthinktwice.com. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Pressemails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Atlanta Division is http://www.justice.gov/usao/gan/.
corruption CHARLOTTE, NC—Charlotte Mayor Patrick DeAngelo Cannon was arrested today by FBI agents for alleged violations of federal public corruption laws, announced Anne M. Tompkins, U.S. Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina. The federal criminal complaint filed in U.S. District Court charges Cannon, 47, of Charlotte, with theft and bribery concerning programs receiving federal funds, honest services wire fraud, and extortion under color of official right. John A. Strong, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Charlotte Division, joins U.S. Attorney Tompkins in making today’s announcement. According to allegations contained in the charging document and the affidavit filed in support of the criminal complaint, during the course of a separate criminal investigation, the FBI received reliable information that Cannon was potentially involved in illegal activities associated with his position as an elected official and began an undercover investigation in or about August 2010. The complaint and affidavit allege that during the course of that investigation, Cannon allegedly solicited and accepted money bribes and things of value from undercover FBI agents, posing as commercial real estate developers and investors wishing to do business in Charlotte. As alleged in the filed documents, Cannon solicited and accepted such bribes and things of value in exchange for the use of his official position as Charlotte mayor, mayor pro tem, and/or as a city council member. The complaint and law enforcement affidavit allege that Cannon accepted the bribes from the undercover FBI agents on five separate occasions. On the last occasion, on February 21, 2014, Cannon allegedly accepted $20,000 in cash in the mayor’s office. According to the complaint and the affidavit, between January 2013 and February 2014, Cannon allegedly accepted from the undercover agents more than $48,000 in cash, airline tickets, a hotel room, and use of a luxury apartment in exchange for the use of his official position. Cannon had his initial appearance today and has been released on bond, pending indictment. The charge of theft and bribery concerning programs receiving federal funds carries a statutory maximum sentence of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine; the charge of honest services wire fraud carries a statutory maximum sentence of not more than 20 years in prison and a $1,000,000 fine; and the charge of extortion under color of official right carries a statutory maximum sentence of not more than 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. The charges contained in the criminal complaint are allegations. The defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond reasonable doubt in a court of law. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Michael E. Savage of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Western District of North Carolina. The case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
corruption SAN FRANCISCO—A federal criminal complaint filed on March 24, 2014, was unsealed in San Francisco today charging 26 defendants with firearms trafficking, money laundering, murder-for-hire, drug distribution, trafficking in contraband cigarettes, and honest services fraud, announced United States Attorney Melinda Haag, FBI Special Agent in Charge David J. Johnson, and Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation, Special Agent in Charge José M. Martinez. The defendants include Raymond “Shrimpboy” Chow, the current Dragonhead, or leader, of the San Francisco-based Chee Kung Tong organization (CKT), and State Senator Leland Yee, who represents San Mateo County and part of San Francisco County in the California Senate. With respect to Chow, according to the complaint, as FBI undercover agents infiltrated the CKT through introductions made by Chow and others, a pattern of alleged racketeering activity was uncovered. According to the complaint, as the relationship developed among the primary undercover agent, Chow, and other defendants, the undercover agent informed the defendants that he was interested in generating income from illegal schemes. The undercover agent was inducted into the CKT as a “consultant.” Thereafter, during the course of multiple undercover operations, the undercover agent was allegedly introduced to a number of the defendants in order to launder money, traffic narcotics, traffic in firearms, traffic purportedly stolen cigarettes and liquor, and engage in murder-for-hire schemes. Chow also introduced Keith Jackson to the undercover agent. Jackson, the owner and operator of “Jackson Consultancy,” a San Francisco based consulting firm, is a “consultant” to the CKT. Jackson and his son, Brandon Jackson, allegedly responded to a request for weapons by the undercover agent, by indicating that Brandon Jackson and an associate would be able to accommodate his request. Subsequently, Jackson, Brandon Jackson, and Marlon Sullivan sold various types of firearms and two ballistic vests to the undercover agent. Additionally, Jackson, Brandon Jackson, and Sullivan allegedly conspired to commit a purported murder for hire scheme requested by the undercover agent, in addition to other illegal activity, including the sale of stolen credit cards and the purported sale of cocaine to Jackson, Brandon Jackson, and Sullivan from the undercover agent. Brandon Jackson introduced the undercover agent to Rinn Roeun, one of Brandon Jackson’s sources of supply for firearms. Roeun sold multiple firearms to the undercover agent and, during a series of conversations, told the undercover agent that he was willing to commit murder for a fee. According to the complaint, in addition to his relationship with Chow and the CKT, Keith Jackson is also a close associate of Senator Leland Yee. From at least May 2011 through the present, Jackson has been involved in raising campaign funds for Yee. With respect to Yee, the complaint alleges that over the course of 2012 and continuing to the present time, Yee and Keith Jackson allegedly raised money and campaign funds for Yee’s Secretary of State campaign by soliciting donations from FBI undercover agents in exchange for multiple official acts and that Yee and Jackson were involved in a conspiracy to traffic firearms. Starting in May 2011, according to the complaint, and continuing for several months, Jackson solicited an undercover agent with the FBI to make contributions to Yee’s San Francisco mayoral campaign. These solicitations allegedly included asking the agent for donations in excess of the $500 individual donation limit. The agent declined to make any donations to Yee but introduced Jackson and Yee to a purported business associate, another undercover FBI agent. Jackson and Yee then solicited the second undercover agent for campaign contributions. This solicitation resulted in at least one personal donation in the amount of $5,000 to Yee’s mayoral campaign. After Yee lost the November 8, 2011 election, according to the complaint, he had at least $70,000 in debt from that campaign. In connection with efforts to retire the mayoral campaign debt, according to the complaint, Yee and Jackson allegedly agreed that Yee would make a telephone call to a manager with the California Department of Public Health in support of a contract under consideration with the second undercover agent’s purported client and would provide an official letter of support for the client, in exchange for a $10,000 campaign donation. Yee allegedly made the call on October 18, 2012, and provided the letter on or about January 13, 2013. On November 19, 2012, Jackson accepted the $10,000 cash donation. According to the complaint, in a further attempt by Jackson and Yee to gain money from one of the undercover agents, in August 2013, Jackson told the undercover agent that Yee had a contact who deals in arms trafficking. Jackson requested that the undercover agent provide a campaign donation on behalf of Yee, for Yee to facilitate a meeting with the arms dealer with the intent of the undercover agent to purportedly purchase a large number of weapons. During a meeting with the undercover agent, Yee and Jackson allegedly discussed details of the specific types of weapons the undercover agent was interested in buying and importing. The defendants are charged as follows: LELAND LIN YEE Conspiracy to Traffic in Firearms Without a License, and to Illegally Import Firearms, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § § 371, 922(a)(1), and (l) Scheme to Defraud Citizens of Honest Services, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § § 1343, 1346, 2 (six counts) KEITH JACKSON Conspiracy to Traffic in Firearms Without a License and to Illegally Import Firearms, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § § 371, 922(a)(1), and (l) Trafficking in Firearms Without a License, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 922(a)(1) Scheme to Defraud Citizens of Honest Services, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § § 1343, 1346, 2 (six counts) Use of an Interstate Commerce Facility for the Commission of a Murder-for-Hire, in violation of 1958 Conspiracy to Distribute Narcotics, in violation of 21 U.S.C. § 846 KWOK CHEUNG CHOW, a/k/a RAYMOND CHOW, a/k/a SHRIMPBOY Money Laundering of Funds Believed to be Proceeds of Specified Unlawful Activity, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1956(a)(3) (three counts) Money Laundering, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1956(a)(1) (two counts) Conspiracy to Receive and Transport Stolen Property in Interstate Commerce, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § § 371, 2314, and 2315 (two counts) Conspiracy to Traffic and Trafficking in Contraband Cigarettes, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § § 371, 2315, 2342(a), and 2344 GEORGE NIEH Money Laundering of Funds Believed to be Proceeds of Specified Unlawful Activity, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1956(a)(3) (three counts) Money Laundering, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1956(a)(1) (two counts) Conspiracy to Receive and Transport Stolen Property in Interstate Commerce, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § § 371, 2314, and 2315 (two counts) Conspiracy to Traffic and Trafficking in Contraband Cigarettes, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § § 371, 2315, 2342(a), and 2344 Trafficking in Firearms Without a License, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 922(a)(1) (two counts) Felon in Possession of a Firearm, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1) (two counts) Conspiracy to Distribute Narcotics, in violation of 21 U.S.C. § § 841 and 846. KEVIN SIU Money Laundering of Funds Believed to be Proceeds of Specified Unlawful Activity, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1956(a)(3) ALAN CHIU Money Laundering of Funds Believed to be Proceeds of Specified Unlawful Activity, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1956(a)(3) KONGPHET CHANTHAVONG Conspiracy to Distribute Narcotics, in violation of 21 U.S.C. § § 841 and 846 (two counts) Possession With Intent to Distribute Narcotics, in violation of 21 U.S.C. § 841 Possession of a Firearm in Furtherance of a Drug Trafficking Crime, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 924(c) Trafficking in Firearms Without a License, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 922(a)(1) (three counts) Felon in Possession of a Firearm, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1)(three counts) XIAO CHENG MEI, a/k/a MICHAEL MEI Possession With Intent to Distribute Narcotics, in violation of 21 U.S.C. § 841 BRANDON JACKSON Conspiracy to Distribute Narcotics, in violation of 21 U.S.C. § 846 Trafficking in Firearms Without a License, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 922(a)(1) Use of an Interstate Commerce Facility for the Commission of a Murder-for-Hire, in violation of 1958 MARLON SULLIVAN Conspiracy to Distribute Narcotics, in violation of 21 U.S.C. § 846 Trafficking in Firearms Without a License, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 922(a)(1) Use of an Interstate Commerce Facility for the Commission of a Murder-for-Hire, in violation of 1958 RINN ROEUN Trafficking in Firearms Without a License, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 922(a)(1) Use of an Interstate Commerce Facility for the Commission of a Murder-for-Hire, in violation of 1958 ANDY LI Money Laundering, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1956(a)(1) Conspiracy to Distribute Narcotics, in violation of 21 U.S.C. § 846 Trafficking in Firearms Without a License, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 922(a)(1) (two counts) Felon in Possession of a Firearm, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1) (two counts) LESLIE YUN Money Laundering of Funds Believed to be Proceeds of Specified Unlawful Activity, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1956(a)(3) Conspiracy to Traffic and Trafficking in Contraband Cigarettes, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § § 371, 2315, 2342(a), and 2344 YAT WAH PAU, a/k/a JAMES PAU Money Laundering of Funds Believed to be Proceeds of Specified Unlawful Activity, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1956(a)(3) Conspiracy to Traffic and Trafficking in Contraband Cigarettes, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § § 371, 2315, 2342(a), and 2344 JANE MIAO XHEN LIANG, a/k/a JANE LIANG Conspiracy to Receive and Transport Stolen Property in Interstate Commerce, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § § 371, 2314, and 2315 TINA YAO GUI LIANG, a/k/a TINA LIANG Conspiracy to Receive and Transport Stolen Property in Interstate Commerce, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § § 371, 2314, and 2315 Conspiracy to Distribute Narcotics, in violation of 21 U.S.C. § 846 BRYAN TILTON Conspiracy to Receive and Transport Stolen Property in Interstate Commerce, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § § 371, 2314, and 2315 Conspiracy to Distribute Narcotics, in violation of 21 U.S.C. § 846 HUAN MING MA Conspiracy to Receive and Transport Stolen Property in Interstate Commerce, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § § 371, 2315 HON KEUNG SO Conspiracy to Receive and Transport Stolen Property in Interstate Commerce, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § § 371, 2315 NORGE MASTRANGELO Money Laundering, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1956(a)(1) ALBERT NHINGSAVATH Money Laundering, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1956(a)(1) SERGE GEE Money Laundering, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1956(a)(1) (three counts) XIU YING LIANG, a/k/a ELAINE LIANG Money Laundering, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1956(a)(1) (three counts) GARY KWONG YIU CHEN Money Laundering, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1956(a)(1) (two counts) ANTHONY LAI Money Laundering, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1956(a)(1) (two counts) WILSON SY LIM Conspiracy to Traffic in Firearms Without a License, and to Illegally Import Firearms, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § § 371, 922(a)(1), and (l) In a related case, a complaint filed on March 25, 2014, charging defendant BARRY HOUSE with one count of trafficking in firearms without a license, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 922(a)(1), and one count of felon in possession of a firearm, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1). The maximum penalties for the violations are as follows: 18 U.S.C. § 1956(a)(1) 20 years in prison Three years’ supervised release $500,000 fine $100 special assessment 18 U.S.C. § 1956(a)(3) 20 years in prison Three years’ supervised release $500,000 fine $100 special assessment 18 U.S.C. § § 371, 2314, 2315 Five years in prison Three years’ supervised release $250,000 fine $100 special assessment 18 U.S.C. § § 371, 2315, 2342(a), 2344 Five years in prison Three years’ supervised release $250,000 fine $100 special assessment 18 U.S.C. § 922(a)(1) Five years in prison Three years’ supervised release $250,000 fine $100 special assessment 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1) 10 years in prison Three years’ supervised release $250,000 fine $100 special assessment 18 U.S.C. §§ 371, 922(a)(1), 922(l) Five years in prison Three years’ supervised release $250,000 fine $100 special assessment 18 U.S.C. § 924(c) From five years to life Five years’ supervised release $250,000 fine $100 special assessment 18 U.S.C. § 1958 10 years in prison Three years’ supervised release $250,000 fine $100 special assessment 18 U.S.C. § § 1343, 1346, 2 20 years in prison Three years’ supervised release $250,000 fine $100 special assessment 21 U.S.C. § 841 From five years to 40 years in prison Four years’ supervised release $5 million fine $100 special assessment 21 U.S.C. § 841, 846 Five years in prison, with five or ten year mandatory minimum in some instances Three to five years’ supervised release $250,000 to $10 million fine $100 special assessment The defendants, with the exception of Brandon Jackson, Sullivan, Liang, Nhingsavath, Mastrangelo, Gee, Yun, and Pau, were arrested today and made their initial appearances in federal court in San Francisco in front of United States Magistrate Judge Nathanael M. Cousins. Yun and Pau were arrested yesterday in New York. Sullivan was arrested this morning in New Jersey and Brandon Jackson was arrested in Connecticut. Liang, Nhingsavath, Mastrangelo, and Gee are fugitives. A complaint merely alleges that crimes have been committed, and all defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. If convicted, the defendants are subject to the maximum penalties stated above. However, any sentence following conviction would be imposed by the court only after consideration of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and the federal statute governing the imposition of a sentence, 18 U.S.C. § 3553. William Frentzen, Susan Badger, and Waqar Hasib are the Assistant U.S. Attorneys who are prosecuting the case. The prosecution is the result of a five-year investigation by the FBI, Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigations Division, San Francisco Police Department, Oakland Police Department, and Antioch Police Department.
corruption LOS ANGELES—A former inspector with the Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety (LADBS) was sentenced today to 30 months in federal prison for taking more than $30,000 in bribes in relation to at least a dozen properties in and around the Koreatown District of Los Angeles. Samuel In, 66, of Glendale, a 37-year veteran of LADBS, pleaded guilty just over one year ago to one count of bribery. According to court documents, In took bribe payments—which he described to some victims as “fees”—from 2007 through the end of 2010. In admitted that he solicited and accepted bribery payments totaling more than $30,000 in connection with his official duties in relation to at least a dozen Koreatown properties. Federal prosecutors asked United States District Judge Dean D. Pregerson to impose a 30-month prison term, reasoning that In took bribes as part of a “deliberate, long-running pattern of corruption.” In a sentencing memo filed with the court, prosecutor wrote: “This recommended sentence appropriately accounts for the serious nature of defendant’s illegal course of conduct—abusing his position as a senior building inspector over a number of years to solicit and take bribes in return for approving numerous building projects that may or may not have been safe.” The case against In is the result of an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The FBI urges anyone with information about building inspectors or other officials accepting bribes to contact the FBI by calling its Los Angeles Field Office at its toll-free corruption hotline—(855) 5-BRIBES (855-527-4237)—or sending an e-mail to ReportBribes@ic.fbi.gov. Contact: Assistant United States Attorney Margaret L. Carter Public Corruption and Civil Rights Section (213) 894-7413
corruption PLANO, TX—A 64-year-old Fort Worth man has pleaded guilty to mortgage fraud and federal income tax violations in the Eastern District of Texas, announced U.S. Attorney John M. Bales today. Lawrence Michael Day pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud affecting a financial institution today before U.S. Magistrate Judge Don Bush. Day also pleaded guilty today to an information charging him with two counts of tax fraud. According to information presented in court, from 2005 to 2008, Day conspired with others to defraud lending institutions by providing fraudulent documents and causing residential loans to be provided based on the fraudulent information. One such property was located on Carlton Court in McKinney, Texas. A total of 28 properties located in Cedar Hill, Cresson, Dallas, Euless, Fairview, Fort Worth, Frisco, Heath, Hurst, McKinney, Murphy, Plano, Prosper, and Watauga, Texas, were involved in the scheme. Based on this criminal activity, Day personally gained $1,877,032.56. On April 11, 2013, a federal grand jury indicted Day and five others for their participation in this mortgage fraud scheme. Co-defendants Donna Shirley Cobb, 53, of Aledo, Texas; Michael Jerome Edwards, 41, of Lewisville, Texas; Scott Cameron Sherman, 38, of Mansfield, Texas; and Donald Lee Mattox, 41, of McKinney, Texas, have all pleaded guilty in this scheme and are awaiting sentencing. This law enforcement action is part of President Barack Obama’s Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force. President Obama established the interagency Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force to wage an aggressive, coordinated, and proactive effort to investigate and prosecute financial crimes. The task force includes representatives from a broad range of federal agencies, regulatory authorities, inspectors general, and state and local law enforcement who, working together, bring to bear a powerful array of criminal and civil enforcement resources. The task force is working to improve efforts across the federal executive branch and, with state and local partners, to investigate and prosecute significant financial crimes, ensure just and effective punishment for those who perpetrate financial crimes, combat discrimination in the lending and financial markets, and recover proceeds for victims of financial crimes. In another scheme, on October 8 2008, Day claimed a refund of $981,952 on his 2006 federal income tax return to which he knew he was not entitled. On October 10, 2008, Day claimed a refund of $2,895,041 on his 2007 federal income tax return to which he knew he was not entitled. Day prepared and submitted fraudulent Forms 1099-OID worksheets in support of both fraudulent federal income tax returns. Day faces up to 30 years in federal prison for the mortgage fraud violation and has agreed to submit to forfeiture of $1,877,032.56. He also faces up to three years in federal prison and a fine of up to $100,000 for each of the tax fraud violations. A sentencing date has not been set. These cases are being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Federal Housing Finance Agency-Office of Inspector General, and the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation. These cases are being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Christopher A. Eason and J. Andrew Williams.
corruption Max P. Andolsek, 52, of Tullahoma, Tennessee, pleaded guilty yesterday in U.S. District Court to conspiracy to defraud the Department of Defense, announced David Rivera, U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Tennessee. Andolsek, a former recruiting assistant for the Air National Guard, and two other individuals were indicted on July 17, 2013. He faces up to five years in prison and a fine of $250,000. “Our nation’s men and women who are considering serving their country through enlistment in the military deserve to be dealt with candidly and with honesty,” said U.S. Attorney David Rivera. “Recruiters are the first faces of the military seen by many considering service. Those who attempt to profit financially by fraudulently manipulating our nation’s recruitment programs undermine their effectiveness, particularly when we are experiencing lean financial times for our nation’s defense. All attempts to defraud our nation’s military will be vigorously pursued by this office and our law enforcement partners.” “Recruitment into the United States Military should be about service to one’s country and not service to one’s wallet,” said A. Todd McCall, Special Agent in Charge of the Memphis Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. “This plea is the result of the efforts of the FBI and our law enforcement partners to investigate and bring to justice any who would commit blatant and outrageous fraud against the United States.” According to evidence presented at the plea hearing, between December 2006 and July 2009, Andolsek conspired with Aaron L. Osborne, a full-time Air National Guard recruiter, to make materially false statements or representations to the Department of Defense in order to embezzle money from the Air National Guard Recruiting Assistance Program (G-RAP). Andolsek admitted to the court that he had contracted with Document and Packaging Brokers Inc. (Docupak), a U.S. Department of Defense contractor, to administer the G-RAP Program, which was designed to allow airmen, officers, and retirees of the Air National Guard to voluntarily serve as recruiting assistants. To participate in the G-RAP Program these individuals were required to complete an online application. Recruiting assistants were selected by Docupak from the pool of applicants and then received online training, including instruction as to eligibility to serve, financial issues, Air Force core values, and ethics. The G-RAP Program was also designed to encourage recruiting assistants to reach out in their communities to find qualified individuals, who were not already working with a full time recruiter, to become Air National Guard Airmen. Once a recruiting assistant identified a qualified potential airman, they would enter the information into the G-RAP website. If the person actually enlisted in the Air National Guard, a $1,000 pre-loaded VISA card would be mailed to the recruiting assistant. Under the program regulations, full time and temporary Air National Guard recruiters were not eligible to participate in the G-RAP initiative and to be eligible to receive payment, recruiting assistants had to be the first contact with a potential airman. G-RAP program regulations also prohibited payments being split with a full time or temporary recruiter. At his plea hearing, Andolsek admitted that Osborne, a full-time recruiter, was the first to receive the contact information of various potential airmen and then supplied that information to Andolsek. Andolsek would then enter the information on the Docupak website and receive a $1,000 payment loaded onto a VISA card each time. Whenever Andolsek made a subsequent entry that one of the potential airmen had started boot camp, he received an additional $1,000 payment loaded to the VISA card. Most of the times that Andolsek received a $1,000 payment, he paid $300 of the proceeds to Osborne. Andolsek will be sentenced on October 10, 2014. Provisions outlined in the plea agreement require that Andolsek make restitution in the amount of at least $14,000. Aaron Osborne and co-defendant Arvalon Michelle Harleston, both from Clarksville, Tennessee, are scheduled for trial on September 23, 2014, before United States District Court Judge Kevin H. Sharp. An indictment is merely an accusation and is not evidence of guilt. All defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty in a court of law. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Kathryn Ward Booth represents the government.
corruption Veteran U.S. Customs and Border Protection Officer Lorne “Hammer” Jones was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge Marilyn Huff to seven and a half years in custody for his role in a decade-long crime spree in which he sold his badge to alien-smuggling groups and ultimately to marijuana transportation cells working for Mexican drug cartels. In court, the defendant acknowledged he has waived his right to appeal. At today’s sentencing and during the December 2013 trial, federal prosecutors Andrew Schopler and W. Mark Conover described the scheme Jones employed to allow over 30,000 kilograms of drug cartel marijuana and multiple illegal aliens into the United States. Jones’ corruption began by first waving cars and vanloads of aliens and drugs through his lane at the San Ysidro port of entry, and later escalated to smuggling tractor-trailers jammed with marijuana through the commercial port at Otay Mesa. Jones, an inspector since 1994, worked at both the San Ysidro and Otay Mesa border crossings and had been a canine officer since the 1990s. He was indicted by a federal grand jury and arrested at work in 2010, charged with conspiracy to commit bribery and to smuggle drugs and aliens. A dozen witnesses testified that Jones was on the take, including Michael Taylor, a former colleague and friend who was also being paid by smugglers to corruptly allow contraband into the United States; Jones’ ex-wife, who recruited him to be a smuggler; a friend and financial adviser who testified that the two had discussed ways to hide ill-gotten gains, and who had personally used Jones to smuggle his girlfriend across the border twice; and several of Jones’ co-conspirators. Prosecutors also presented evidence from a database that tracks information about people crossing the border—such as license plate numbers, names of those who were inspected and when, and by whom. During trial, prosecutors said the data proved that Jones allowed known load vehicles and drivers for drug trafficking organizations to pass though his lanes for years, without being inspected. According to testimony, Jones volunteered to work overtime shifts as a primary inspector so he could wave through vans jammed with aliens and drugs, and trucks full of marijuana. Jones also employed a beeper code system to notify smugglers which one of the 24 inspection lanes he was working when their loads approached the border crossing. But the system failed in 2002 when Jones was randomly and unexpectedly reassigned to another position, and a load driver was forced to abandon his van full of drugs in the inspection line. In a second failure months later, a van stuffed with nearly three tons of marijuana was intercepted in the lane assigned to Jones just a few just car lengths away from him. While Jones’ furiously tried to “waved on” the cars in front of the load vehicle, the driver and passenger of the load vehicle jumped out of the van and attempted to escape from several inspectors who hurried over to apprehend them. Notably, Jones did not try to apprehend the smugglers; rather, as federal prosecutor W. Mark Conover said during closing argument, Jones was frozen “[s]itting in his booth, paralyzed with fear. His load was caught.” This marijuana seizure remains the largest ever at the San Ysidro port of entry. “Lorne Jones allowed greed to destroy everything his badge represents,” said U.S. Attorney Laura Duffy. “We hope this outcome serves as a reminder that we will not allow rogue officers to compromise national security and the public trust.” Pete Flores, CBP Director of Field Operations in San Diego, said: “The actions that Lorne Jones has been convicted of tarnish the badge he wore, and I’m appreciative of the work done to bring him to justice. My CBP officers are hard-working professionals who are vigilant in their protection of the U.S. border and service of the traveling public. CBP does not tolerate corruption within our workforce and we will seek out and work to prosecute to the fullest extent of the law any employees who commit unethical or unlawful acts that tarnish our badge.” FBI Special Agent in Charge Daphne Hearn commented, “When a law enforcement officer violates his oath to protect and serve the citizens of this nation, it undermines the public’s trust. When that happens, the FBI and our law enforcement partners at the Border Corruption Task Force are determined to restore the public’s confidence and trust by rooting out corruption at all levels of government.” The public can report alleged instances of corruption by calling the FBI hotline at 1-877-NO-BRIBE. “I am pleased by today’s sentence,” said Dennis M. McGunagle, Special Agent in Charge of Department of Homeland Security, Office of Inspector General. “The DHS OIG is committed to working with our law enforcement partners to identify and aggressively investigate allegations of corruption to protect our borders and the integrity of DHS personnel, programs, and operations.” Criminal Case No. 10cr4141-H Defendant: Lorne Leslie Jones, aka “Hammer” Age: 50  Chula Vista, CA Summary of Charges Conspiracy to commit offenses against the United States, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 371 Attempted importation of marijuana, in violation of 21 U.S.C. § 841 Agencies Federal Bureau of Investigation, Border Corruption Task Force Department of Homeland Security, Office of Inspector General Customs and Border Protection, Office of Field Operations
corruption BUFFALO, NY—U.S. Attorney William J. Hochul, Jr. announced today that a federal grand jury has returned a five-count indictment charging Daniel Rice, 50, a retired Boston, Massachusetts police officer, with wire fraud and conspiracy to commit wire fraud. The charges carry a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a fine of $250,000. Assistant U.S. Attorney Paul J. Campana, who is handling the case, stated that Rice is charged with causing a broker from Montana to wire $250,000 in March 2009 to Carnic Services LLC, one of the “New Frontier” companies controlled by Michael Wilson, formerly of Hamburg, New York. According to the indictment, by March 2009, Rice (the defendant) knew that Michael Wilson’s companies failed to pay out on deals promising large returns in short periods of time. Wilson is currently under indictment for deals entered into by his companies in 2008 through 2010. The indictment against Rice also charges that, in two deals brokered in January and July of 2010, the defendant intentionally failed to tell the same Montana broker that the company offering the investment program “Zodiak Capital” was another of Wilson’s companies. As a result, in January 2010, the Montana broker wired $100,000 to Rice, who kept $40,000 before passing the remaining $60,000 on to a Wilson account at HSBC Bank in Buffalo. In July 2010, Rice was involved in a second deal with Zodiak, and again failed to tell the Montana broker about Zodiak’s connection to Wilson’s companies. As a result, on July 15 and 19, 2010, a total of $71,875 of a different investor’s money was wired to accounts in the Buffalo area controlled by Zodiak. None of these deals paid out. The only money ever recovered was the $71,875 wired to Zodiak in July 2010, which was recovered because the government quickly applied to have the receiving bank accounts frozen. The funds eventually were returned to the investor, who lives in Utah. Rice was arrested today in Stoughton, Massachusetts and made an appearance in U.S. District Court in Boston, after which he was released. The defendant will be arraigned in Buffalo before U.S. Magistrate Judge Jeremiah J. McCarthy on March 28, 2014 at 2:30 p.m. The indictment is the result of an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, with assistance from the Boston Police Department Anti-Corruption Division. The fact that a defendant has been charged with a crime is merely an accusation and the defendant is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty.
corruption ROCHESTER, NY—U.S. Attorney William J. Hochul, Jr. announced today that Steve Wysocki, 50, of Newark, New York, who was convicted of filing false statements with the United States government, was sentenced to 24 months in prison by U.S. District Court Judge Frank P. Geraci. The defendant was also ordered to pay $299,000 in restitution. Assistant U.S. Attorney Craig R. Gestring, who handled the case, stated that Wysocki was testing manager for Flightline Systems, a Victor-based defense contractor working on United States Army and Navy projects. The defendant oversaw product testing for the KG-40 military radio system as well as the SH-60 Sonobuoy system. The KG-40 is a tactical radio encryption system used by the U.S. Army and Navy and sold for export to foreign countries. It consists of several components including the radio, a remote, and a tray. The SH-60 Sonobuoy system is an Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) device. The system includes a small sonar unit which is released from both fixed and rotor wing ASW aircraft as well as various other components including external preamps. Both the KG-40 and Sonobuoy programs have contractual manufacturing and testing requirements imposed by the United States Department of Defense. Among these protocols is something know as vibration testing. This process subjects the various items to prolonged vibration exposure using a vibration table equipped with pressure plates. The items are placed on the vibration table during the manufacturing process for a pre-set period of time to ensure that they will survive real world conditions on ships and aircraft. The components are hooked up to a computer during testing which monitors their performance and then produces a unique graph upon successful completion. Due to many individual testing variables, no two items will produce the exact same testing graph. The graphs are unique to each item, and are stamped with the time and date of the test as well as the serial number of the item tested. The graphs are signed by the table operator and are then made part of the items “traveler file” which accompanies each item throughout the assembly and testing process. Each item tested must have a copy of a passing vibration table graph in the file in order to be released to the military. The vibration tests were run at Flightline’s Victor facility. During the investigation, special agents from the FBI and Army Criminal Investigation Division learned that Wysocki was both personally falsifying vibration graphs as well as directing other subordinates to do so. Wysocki would then print the false graph, or direct others to do so, and include this false document in the items history, thus proving that it was successfully tested, even though as he knew, the item was not properly tested. He referred to this process as “phantom vibe testing.” As a result of the defendant’s conduct, individual components had to be re-tested, costing the Department of Defense $299,094.00 The sentencing is the culmination of an investigation on the part of special agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; special agents of the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Division Command, Major Procurement Fraud Unit (MPFU), under the direction of Special Agent in Charge, L. Scott Moreland; Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS), Northeast Field Office under the direction of Special Agent in Charge, Jeremy Gauthier; and the Department of Defense, Office of Inspector General, Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS), under the direction of Special Agent in Charge, Craig Rupert.
corruption ATLANTA—Brenda Joyce Davidson, Gwendolyn Lockett, Sheryl Monique Taylor, and Keresa Foster have been arraigned on indictments returned by a federal grand jury on March 12, 2014, charging them with accepting cash bribes in exchange for issuing Georgia car titles. “These defendants are charged with taking official actions that were motivated by their personal financial gain instead of their duty to serve the citizens of this state with integrity,” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. “Thanks to the collaborative efforts of federal and state law enforcement agencies, the defendants are no longer in a position to subvert Georgia’s car titling system for their personal gain.” J. Britt Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated, “Public corruption at all levels erodes the public’s trust placed in not only those individuals but also the organization they represent. The FBI will continue to provide significant investigative resources toward public corruption related matters, noting that it is one of the FBI’s top criminal investigative priorities.” Staci Guest, director of the Office of Special Investigations, stated, “The suspect’s indictments show how serious the State of Georgia is at finding individuals who erode public trust and confidence. The Georgia Department of Revenue will continue to work with our federal and local law enforcement officials to combat individuals who commit fraud.” According to United States Attorney Yates, the charges, and other information presented in court: Davidson, Lockett, Taylor, and Foster were all customer service representatives at the Georgia Department of Revenue’s Motor Vehicle Division, responsible for processing and issuing car titles and registration documents. In 2012 and 2013, each of the defendants accepted bribes from individuals they believed to be customers in need of car titles. The individuals were actually FBI agents posing as customers or other individuals working under the direction of the FBI. Soon after accepting the bribes, each defendant accessed Georgia’s official car titling databases to process, print, and provide the fraudulent car titles. The defendants would meet with the purported customers outside of normal business hours and at various locations throughout the metropolitan Atlanta area. During those meetings, the defendants would accept cash bribes, obtain titling paperwork, and provide the fraudulent titles. At the time the defendants provided the car titles, they knew or suspected that the titling paperwork was incomplete or fraudulent. On one occasion, a defendant accepted a cash bribe in exchange for processing and printing a car title. The defendant soon discovered that she could not print the car title because the Department of Revenue changed its title printing policy for individual car owners. Later, in order to circumvent the Department of Revenue’s title printing restrictions, the defendant accessed Georgia’s car titling database to obtain the name of a defunct car dealer, provided that dealer’s name to the purported customer, and processed fraudulent paperwork containing the dealer’s name despite knowing that the dealer was not involved in the unlawful transaction. Brenda Joyce Davidson, 55; Gwendolyn Lockett, 49; Sheryl Monique Taylor, 31; and Keresa Foster, 44, all of the Atlanta, Georgia area, were arraigned before United States Magistrate Judge Linda T. Walker. Members of the public are reminded that the indictment only contains charges. The defendant is presumed innocent of the charges, and it will be the government’s burden to prove the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt at trial. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Georgia Department of Revenue. Assistant United States Attorney Nekia S. Hackworth is prosecuting the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Presse-mails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Atlanta Division is http://www.justice.gov/usao/gan/.
corruption CHICAGO—A Cook County official was sentenced today to 51 months in federal prison for steering four county contracts, each just under $25,000, to four acquaintances and then taking a portion of the contract payments as kickbacks from each of them, totaling $34,700. The defendant, Eugene Mullins, who was director of the Cook County Department of Public Affairs and Communications between March 2008 and November 2010, was sentenced after being convicted of three counts of wire fraud and four counts of bribery at trial last September in U.S. District Court. Mullins, 50, of Chicago, a former Chicago police officer, was also ordered to pay restitution and forfeiture, both in the amount of $34,700. He was ordered to begin serving his sentence on June 19 by U.S. District Judge Amy J. St. Eve. “Public corruption does not pay and has significant consequences,” Judge St. Eve said in imposing the sentence after finding that Mullins obstructed justice by committing perjury in his testimony at trial. The four individuals who received county contracts and returned a portion of the payments to Mullins were each charged with misprision of a felony for concealing Mullins’ fraud and kickback scheme. Each of them entered into pretrial diversion agreements and were placed on probation, were ordered to pay full restitution to the county, and testified as government witnesses at Mullins’ trial. They are Gary Render, Michael L. Peery, and Clifford Borner, all of Chicago, and Kenneth Gregory Demos, of Oak Park. Evidence at Mullins’ trial showed that between January 2010 and January 2011, he used his county position to submit and cause others to submit false documents to the county to assist the four vendors in obtaining professional and managerial service contracts and payment from the county. Mullins then solicited the individuals who obtained contracts for payments from the proceeds for his own benefit. Cook County contracts for professional and managerial services under $25,000 required approval only by the county purchasing agent and did not require approval by the county Board of Commissioners. In 2010, Mullins’ public affairs and communications department, as well as other county departments, had access to federal funds and county money to promote awareness and increase response rates by county residents for the 2010 U.S. Census, to promote awareness and assist residents impacted by floods in 2008 and to promote and increase energy efficiency and conservation. During 2010, Mullins schemed to fraudulently steer the following contracts: a $24,980 disaster grant contract to Render, who paid Mullins $9,000; a $24,985 energy grant contract to Peery, who paid Mullins $12,000; a $24,995 census contract to Borner, who paid Mullins $5,000; and a $24,997 census contract to Demos, who paid Mullins $8,700. Evidence also showed that Mullins told the individuals who received the contracts that he could arrange for a subcontractor to perform some of the work in exchange for a portion of the county payments they received. In fact, the money that Mullins received from the individuals was not used for any subcontracts. Instead, Mullins used it for his own benefit, while Render, Peery, Borner, and Demos performed little or no work for the county. The sentence was announced by Zachary T. Fardon, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois; Robert J. Holley, Special Agent in Charge of the Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Anita Alvarez, Cook County State’s Attorney; and Patrick Blanchard, Cook County Inspector General. The government was represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Lindsay Jenkins and Sarah E. Streicker.
corruption CHARLOTTE, NC—Former employee with the city of Cherryville Jennifer Neal Hoyle was sentenced to serve 12 months and a day in prison today for embezzling more than $92,900 in city funds, announced Anne M. Tompkins, U.S. Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina. In January 2013, Hoyle, 36, of Cherryville, pleaded guilty to three felony charges of program fraud, stemming from a joint federal and state investigation into misappropriated city funds. John A. Strong, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Charlotte Division; Greg McLeod, Director of the State Bureau of Investigation (NC SBI), and Chief James W. Buie of the Gaston County Police Department join U.S. Attorney Tompkins in making today’s announcement. U.S. District Judge Robert J. Conrad, Jr. presided over the sentencing and ordered Hoyle to serve three years of supervised release upon completion of her sentence and to pay $92,922.55 as restitution to the city. According to filed court documents and court proceedings, Hoyle was a senior customer service representative/utility supervisor for the city of Cherryville, responsible for collecting and posting utility payments made by customers. Court records indicate that beginning in January 2008 through May 2011, Hoyle embezzled approximately $92,922 from the city of Cherryville by stealing some cash payments made by utilities customers paying their bills. Court records show that Hoyle took the customers’ cash payments, issued paper receipts, credited the customers’ accounts with the payment, and kept the cash. Then, using her supervisory override privileges, Hoyle deleted the transaction from the computer system. Court records also show that, in order to avoid any potential customer complaints, Hoyle created entries in the “extra charge” journal, in which she “wrote off” the cash amount the customers had paid, so that when bills were generated they would not include the embezzled amount. According to court records, Hoyle’s fraud was uncovered when a customer questioned the duplicate charges on her bill and brought in her paper receipt as proof of payment, after Hoyle had failed to convert the customer’s cash payment as a “write off” in the “extra charge” journal. Hoyle was terminated from her position in May 2012. Hoyle was ordered to self-report to the Federal Bureau of Prisons to begin serving her sentence upon designation of a federal facility. All federal sentences are served without the possibility of parole. The investigation into Hoyle was handled by the FBI, SBI, and the Gaston County Police Department. The prosecution is handled by Michael Savage, of the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Charlotte.
corruption WASHINGTON—Kristopher Michael Montemayor, a county commissioner for Precinct 1 of the Webb County Commissioners Court in Texas, was arrested today on charges of bribery, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division. A federal grand jury in the Southern District of Texas returned an indictment on March 18, 2014, that charges Montemayor, 36, of Laredo, Texas, with two counts of federal programs bribery. The indictment was unsealed following today’s arrest. According to allegations in the indictment, while serving as a county commissioner, Montemayor solicited and accepted bribes in exchange for promising to perform various official acts. Montemayor allegedly accepted the use of a 2012 Ford truck, which cost approximately $37,015, in exchange for promising to provide government jobs to both the vehicle’s owner and his spouse. The indictment further alleges that Montemayor, while serving as a county commissioner, solicited and accepted approximately $11,000 in cash, as well as electronics equipment worth approximately $2,700 from a businessman who, unbeknownst to Montemayor, was an undercover law enforcement agent. The indictment alleges that Montemayor promised to take official action to promote the business interests of the undercover agent in exchange for cash and electronics. If convicted, Montemayor faces a maximum potential penalty of 10 years in prison for each bribery charge. Each charge also carries a maximum $250,000 fine. The case is being investigated by the FBI’s Laredo Resident Agency. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Emily Rae Woods and Mark Cipolletti of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section. The charges and allegations contained in the indictment are merely accusations, and the defendant is presumed innocent unless and until he is proven guilty.
corruption SAN DIEGO, CA—Former San Diego Police Detective Ernesto Encinas pled guilty today to charges that he conspired to commit campaign finance crimes in connection with a series of elections at the local and federal level. At the same hearing, Encinas also pled guilty to charges that he made false statements to the Internal Revenue Service when filing tax returns on behalf of his private security business, Coastline Protection and Investigations Inc. As part of his plea agreement, Encinas admitted to a range of allegations first brought to light on January 21, 2014, when prosecutors unsealed a complaint against him. Speaking under oath before U.S. Magistrate Judge William V. Gallo, Encinas admitted that he and his co-conspirators agreed to make illegal contributions on behalf of Jose Susumo Azano Matsura, a foreign national who was arrested by FBI agents on related campaign finance charges in February. Foreign nationals cannot lawfully contribute to any campaign at the federal, state, or local level. Also as part of the plea, Encinas confirmed that he and others, including Azano, Ravneet Singh, and Marco Polo Cortes, agreed to make conduit contributions in connection with a federal election, as well as falsify records with the intent to impede a federal investigation—both of which are felonies regardless of whether the source is a citizen or foreign national. (Azano, Singh, and Cortes, who were charged earlier this year, have pleaded not guilty to the charges filed against them.) Encinas’s plea agreement detailed other aspects of the scheme not previously disclosed in public filings. For example, Encinas admitted to FBI agents that Azano induced a series of individuals to donate directly to Candidate 1, described as a candidate for the office of mayor of San Diego during the 2012 primary election cycle. Encinas stated that Azano provided cash, which the straw donors each used to make the maximum possible donation to Candidate 1. In addition, as part of his plea agreement, Encinas admitted that during tax years 2011 and 2012, Azano paid Encinas approximately $10,000 in cash “off the books.” Encinas failed to report approximately $147,300 of such cash payments in tax year 2011 and approximately $74,900 in cash payments in tax year 2012, for a total of approximately $222,200 in unreported cash income. This resulted in a tax loss of $69,394.36 over two years, which Encinas agreed to pay back as restitution. First Assistant United States Attorney Cindy M. Cipriani said, “To secretly inject foreign money into our elections is an affront to the transparency and integrity of our electoral system. In obtaining this guilty plea, we demonstrate our continuing efforts to investigate and prosecute campaign finance crimes in San Diego and beyond.” FBI Special Agent in Charge Daphne Hearn said, “Illegal campaign contributions from foreign sources undermines our electoral process and ultimately our democracy. The FBI is committed to working with our law enforcement partners to identify and root out public corruption wherever it may be happening.” Special Agent in Charge of Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation (IRS CI) Erick Martinez commented, “Retired San Diego Police Detective Ernesto Encinas intentionally failed to report over $222,000 in cash received by keeping this money ‘off the books.’ Today’s guilty plea should serve as a reminder—all of us have an obligation to file an accurate and truthful tax return. Failure to do so could result in criminal prosecution.” Encinas’s sentencing hearing has been set for June 9, 2014, at 9 a.m. before United States District Judge Michael M. Anello. Defendant in Case Number: 14CR0344-MMA Ernesto Encinas Age: 57 San Diego, California Summary of Charges and Maximum Penalties Count one: conspiracy to commit offenses against the United States—18 U.S.C. § 371 Maximum penalties: five years in prison, three years of supervised release, $250,000 fine, and a $100 special assessment Count two: false tax return—26 U.S.C. § 7206(1): three years in prison, one year of supervised release, $250,000 fine, and a $100 special assessment Investigating Agencies Federal Bureau of Investigation Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation San Diego Police Department
corruption ALEXANDRIA, VA—Francisco Samayoa Hernandez (“Samayoa”), 33, of Silver Spring, Maryland, pleaded guilty today to receiving bribes in connection with his work as a tax assessor supervisor at the Arlington County, Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles Select Office. Dana J. Boente, Acting United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, and Valerie Parlave, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office, made the announcement after the plea was accepted by U.S. District Judge Leonie M. Brinkema. Samayoa faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison when he is sentenced on June 9, 2014. In a statement of facts filed with his plea agreement, Samayoa admitted to receiving approximately $11,480 in bribes from a vehicle exporter in exchange for providing vehicle titles and falsifying Department of Motor Vehicle paperwork that allowed the exporter to avoid paying state motor vehicle sales and use tax in connection with the registration and titling of various luxury automobiles. In exchange for the bribes, Samayoa enabled the exporter to avoid paying approximately $24,923 due to the Commonwealth of Virginia for the registration and titling of a Lamborghini and multiple Ferraris, Porsches, and Mercedes. Samayoa was an Arlington County employee, and the Arlington County Commissioner of Revenue contracts with the DMV to provide vehicle-related services at its local office. Samayoa also admitted to serving as a straw buyer for the exporter and purchasing three BMWs in his name. In connection with these transactions, Samayoa falsely certified to a dealership that he was not purchasing the vehicle for export, and the dealership relied on that certification in making the sale. This case was investigated jointly by the FBI’s Washington Field Office and the Virginia DMV Law Enforcement Division Office of Enforcement and Compliance. Assistant U.S. Attorney Paul J. Nathanson is prosecuting the case. Any person who believes they may have information regarding public corruption in the Northern Virginia area is encouraged to call the FBI’s Northern Virginia Public Corruption Hotline at 703-686-6225 or send an e-mail to NOVAPC@ic.fbi.gov. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia at http://www.justice.gov/usao/vae.
corruption FRESNO, CA—A complaint has been filed in the Fresno branch of the United States District Court against Derik Carson Kumagai, 40, a Fresno Police Department detective assigned to the Vice Unit and Saykham Somphoune, 40, of Clovis, charging them with conspiracy, bribery, and extortion, United States Attorney Benjamin B. Wagner announced. “Prosecuting those who misuse their badge for personal gain is an important mission for the U.S. Department of Justice,” said U.S. Attorney Wagner. “I am grateful for the assistance of Chief Dyer and the leadership of his department in this investigation.” According to court documents, detective Kumagai accepted a $20,000 bribe from an individual who was under investigation for marijuana trafficking (identified as Person Y). In return for the bribe payment, Kumagai and co-conspirator Somphoune promised Person Y that he would be signed up as a confidential informant for the Fresno PD. Somphoune is not a law enforcement officer. In October and November 2013, Kumagai and Somphoune met with Person Y on several occasions and discussed the proposed bribe payment. On November 6, 2013, Person Y paid Kumagai approximately $20,000 cash. A few hours later, Person Y completed documents regarding work as a confidential informant for the Fresno Police Department. This case is the product of an investigation by the Drug Enforcement Administration, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation, the United States Postal Inspection Service, and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s (ICE) Homeland Security Investigations (HSI). Assistant United States Attorneys Grant B. Rabenn and Kevin P. Rooney are prosecuting the case. If convicted of conspiracy, the defendants face a maximum statutory penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. If convicted of bribery, they face a maximum statutory penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Any sentence, however, would be determined at the discretion of the court after consideration of any applicable statutory factors and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, which take into account a number of variables. The charges are only allegations; the defendants are presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption This afternoon, 37-year-old former San Antonio Police Officer Curtis W. Lundy was sentenced to 18 months in federal prison, followed by two years of supervised release, for theft of honest services by wire fraud, announced United States Attorney Robert Pitman, Federal Bureau of Investigation Acting Special Agent in Charge Aaron C. Rouse, and San Antonio Police Chief William McManus. According to court records, on December 15, 2012, then Officer Lundy responded to a call concerning an assault in progress at a Northside apartment complex. At the scene, Lundy detained an individual in connection with the assault after that individual admitted to Lundy that he was in possession of a user amount of marijuana. While the subject was detained, Lundy indicated that he would hold off on filing the possession of marijuana charge in exchange for a $400 payment. During subsequent phone conversations, Lundy raised the payment to $500. The subject subsequently contacted the FBI and at the agency’s direction, the subject was able to make multiple audio recordings of cellular telephone conversations with Lundy. During one of those conversations, Lundy instructed the subject to meet in order to collect the $500. Surveillance observed Lundy, the sole occupant, arrive in a marked SAPD patrol vehicle and collect an envelope from the subject that contained $500. Lundy pleaded guilty to the charge on October 10, 2013. This case was investigated by agents with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, together with San Antonio Police Department Internal Affairs. Assistant United States Attorney Greg Surovic prosecuted this case on behalf of the government.
corruption Douglas T. Knowles, 37, of Washington Park, Illinois, was sentenced to three months in federal prison, followed by six months of home detention and three years of supervised release, for the offense of uttering a forged check of the Village of Washington Park, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of Illinois Stephen R. Wigginton announced today. In December 2012, Knowles, who was a public works/street superintendent for the Village of Washington Park, purchased and picked up a gas range from Gil Klein TV & Appliance Inc., a/k/a Klein’s Brand Source, in Fairview Heights. Knowles presented a Village of Washington Park check purported to be signed by the Mayor of Washington Park for payment. It was later learned that Knowles forged the endorsement of the Mayor and used the gas range for his private residence. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigations as part of the Metro East Public Corruption Task Force. The case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Norman R. Smith.
corruption FRESNO, CA—A federal grand jury returned a two-count indictment Thursday against Ramon Cano, 27, of Bakersfield, charging him with acceptance of a bribe by a federal official and possession with intent to distribute heroin and methamphetamine, United States Attorney Benjamin B. Wagner announced. According to court documents, in November 2013, a federal inmate at Taft Correctional Institution contacted TCI investigators and told them that Cano, a full-time contract correctional officer at TCI, was involved in smuggling heroin and methamphetamine into the prison in return for payments of cash. According to the criminal complaint, on February 27, 2014, Cano met with an undercover agent in Bakersfield who provided Cano with $4,000 and an ounce of methamphetamine and an ounce of heroin that Cano agreed to smuggle into the federal prison. After the transaction, Cano was arrested as he walked back to his vehicle. This case is the product of an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the U.S. Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General. Assistant United States Attorney Brian K. Delaney is prosecuting the case. If convicted, Cano faces a maximum statutory penalty of 40 years in prison and a $5 million fine. Any sentence, however, would be determined at the discretion of the court after consideration of any applicable statutory factors and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, which take into account a number of variables. The charges are only allegations; the defendant is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, and Patricia M. Ferrick, Special Agent in Charge of the New Haven Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, announced that KISHA PERKINS, a case manager at the Federal Correctional Institution in Danbury (FCI Danbury), was arrested today on a federal criminal complaint charging her with aiding and abetting a scheme to solicit and collect cash bribes from FCI Danbury inmates in exchange for a recommendation that inmates be released early to “halfway houses.” PERKINS, 42, of Waterbury, was arrested this morning by FBI special agents at her home. She appeared this afternoon before U.S. Magistrate Judge Joan G. Margolis in New Haven and was released on a $100,000 bond. “There is no tolerance for corrupt employees within the ranks of the Justice Department,” stated U.S. Attorney Daly. “The allegations contained in this criminal complaint are serious and disturbing. The U.S. Attorney’s Office and our federal investigative partners are committed to rooting out corruption at all levels of government.” “Plainly and simply, the FBI has zero tolerance for corruption of any kind, at any level of government,” stated FBI Special Agent in Charge Ferrick. “The allegations in the complaint are clearly very serious crimes. And the resulting law enforcement response to committing those crimes should be equally clear. If you put your position of trust with the government up for sale, you will be investigated and prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.” As alleged in the criminal complaint, in June 2013, PERKINS approached another FCI Danbury employee about an opportunity to participate in a scheme to solicit a cash bribe from an inmate at FCI Danbury in exchange for the inmate’s early release to a halfway house. At that time, PERKINS held the job title of unit counselor at FCI Danbury and did not have administrative authority to recommend inmates for early release. PERKINS explained that the inmate and the inmate’s husband were willing to pay $20,000, and that PERKINS’ co-worker, who would receive half of the money, was needed to complete the scheme because the co-worker had the administrative ability to recommend inmates for early release. PERKINS’ co-worker declined to participate in the scheme, reported the incident to law enforcement, and agreed to cooperate in the investigation, which included the use of numerous consensually recorded conversations. In July 2013, PERKINS’ co-worker told PERKINS that he/she had changed his/her mind and wanted to participate in the scheme. It is alleged that PERKINS informed her co-worker that a scheme involving the inmate who had been previously identified was no longer feasible. As the investigation continued, in February 2014, PERKINS’ co-worker identified a second inmate as a possible candidate for the bribe scheme. Is it alleged that PERKINS agreed to participate and, after extensive planning, on March 8, 2014, PERKINS and her co-worker traveled to a commuter lot off of Exit 28 on Interstate 84 to pick up a partial bribe payment of $5,000 in cash in a fast food bag that, as PERKINS believed, was to be dropped off by an acquaintance of the inmate. The complaint charges PERKINS with aiding and abetting in a bribery scheme of a public official, an offense that carries a maximum term of imprisonment of 15 years. U.S. Attorney Daly stressed that a complaint is only a charge and is not evidence of guilt. Charges are only allegations, and the defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. This matter is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation with the assistance of the Department of Justice Office of Inspector General. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Susan Wines.
corruption WASHINGTON—A former correctional officer in Puerto Rico was sentenced to serve 37 months in prison for attempting to smuggle heroin into state prison by delivering it to an inmate in the parking lot of the Medical Center in San Juan, Puerto Rico. Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodríguez-Vélez of the District of Puerto Rico made the announcement. William Joel Medina, 32, of Quebradillas, Puerto Rico, pleaded guilty on November 22, 2013 to conspiracy and attempt to distribute controlled substances. Medina was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Carmen C. Cerezo of the District of Puerto Rico. From July through August 2009, Medina and a co-conspirator agreed to receive $2,500 to deliver heroin to an inmate at the Medical Center in San Juan. On August 5, 2009, Medina and his co-conspirator met with an undercover agent, who they believed was a drug dealer, and were given what they believed to be a package of heroin. Medina delivered the purported heroin to an inmate in the parking lot of the Medical Center that same day. In September 2009, Medina and a co-conspirator agreed to receive $4,000 to deliver another package of heroin to the same inmate at the Medical Center in San Juan. On September 9, 2009, Medina and his co-conspirator met with an undercover agent, who they believed was a drug dealer, and were given what they believed to be a package of heroin. Medina’s co-conspirator delivered the purported heroin to the inmate that same day. Medina also admitted in his plea agreement that he had engaged in a similar scheme on a third occasion. The case was investigated by the FBI’s San Juan Division. The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorney Menaka Kalaskar of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Hector Ramirez-Carbó of the District of Puerto Rico.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, and George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office, announce yesterday’s conviction of Mario Fabricio Ormachea Aliaga, 43, of La Paz, Bolivia. After a three-day jury trial in Ft. Lauderdale before U.S. District Judge Jose A. Gonzalez, Jr., Ormachea was convicted of traveling to the United States with the intent to commit extortion and attempted extortion. At trial, the evidence showed that Ormachea, the national chief of the Bolivian Police’s Anti-Corruption Department, traveled to the United States to extort Humberto Roca, a Bolivian citizen and political exile who was living in the United States. Mr. Roca was a successful and prominent Bolivian businessman who had run the country’s largest private airline, Aerosur. After Mr. Roca spoke out against the Bolivian government, the Bolivian government charged him and members of his family with various crimes against the State. Ormachea flew to the United States to meet with Mr. Roca. During his meetings with Mr. Roca, Ormachea told Mr. Roca that he was in charge of several of the criminal cases against him, that he decided what the criminal investigations showed and what they did not show, and that he provided the components necessary for the Bolivian government to make decisions on Mr. Roca’s cases. Ormachea then told Mr. Roca that he believed him to be innocent of any crimes but that it would cost him $30,000 to have Ormachea shift the investigations to the guilty parties. Ormachea faces a statutory maximum sentence of up to 25 years in prison, plus fines and restitution. Ormachea will be sentenced in May by U.S. District Judge Robin S. Rosenbaum. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI. This case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys John R. Byrne and Jon Juenger.
corruption PADUCAH, KY—A U.S. Army soldier was sentenced to serve 12 months and one day in prison for his role in stealing fuel at Forward Operating Base (FOB) Fenty near Jalalabad, Afghanistan. Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney David J. Hale of the Western District of Kentucky made the announcement after sentencing by U.S. District Court Judge Thomas B. Russell in the Western District of Kentucky. According to court documents, in May and June 2010, U.S. Army Sergeant Kevin Bilal Abdullah, 40, of Clarksville, Tennessee, was involved in overseeing the delivery of fuel from FOB Fenty to other military bases. Abdullah created fraudulent documents called Transportation Movement Requests purporting to authorize the transport of fuel from FOB Fenty to other military bases, even though no legitimate fuel transportation was required. After the trucks were filled with fuel, these fraudulent documents were used by the drivers of the fuel trucks at FOB Fenty’s departure checkpoint to justify the trucks’ departures. In truth, the fuel was simply stolen, and Abdullah and his co-conspirators received payment in cash from a representative of the Afghan trucking company that allegedly stole the fuel. Abdullah pleaded guilty on August 29, 2013 to receiving payments from a representative of the trucking company in exchange for facilitating the theft of fuel in approximately 25 fuel trucks. He pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery and to the substantive count of bribery. At sentencing, he was ordered to pay $466,250 in restitution. Abdullah’s sentencing was the fourth conviction arising from this investigation of fuel thefts at FOB Fenty. On August 3, 2012, Jonathan Hightower, a civilian employee of a military contractor who had conspired with Abdullah and others, pleaded guilty to similar charges. After cooperating with the government, he was sentenced on October 28, 2013, to serve 27 months in prison. On October 10, 2012, Christopher Weaver, another conspirator, pleaded guilty to fuel theft charges and, after cooperating with the government, was sentenced on October 28, 2013, to serve 37 months in prison. On September 5, 2013, former Specialist Stephanie Charboneau pleaded guilty, and on February 4, 2014, she was sentenced to serve 87 months in prison. Weaver, Hightower, and Charboneau were prosecuted in the District of Colorado. These cases were investigated by the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR), the Department of the Army-Criminal Investigation Division, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, and the FBI. The Abdullah case was handled by Special Trial Attorney Mark H. Dubester of the Criminal Division’s Fraud Section, on detail from SIGAR, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael A. Bennett from the Western District of Kentucky.
corruption INDIANAPOLIS—Joseph H. Hogsett, the United States Attorney, announced today that federal criminal charges have been filed against a former City of Bloomington senior project manager. Specifically, Justin Wykoff, 43, has been charged with 24 counts of embezzlement and one count of conspiracy. Two other accomplices, Roger D. Hardin, 51, and his son, Zachary, 25, both of Bedford, have also been charged. It is alleged that the three men bilked hundreds of thousands of dollars from public works projects by submitting and approving fraudulent invoices. Wykoff was arrested early this morning at his home by federal agents. The Hardins were also arrested and face charges of conspiracy to commit a federal crime. The criminal complaint alleges that from May 13, 2011 to February 14, 2014, acting as the manager of engineering services and, thereafter, as a senior project manager for the City of Bloomington, Wykoff approved false invoices which caused the city to pay more than $800,000 for work on concrete projects that was never completed at all or actually done by other construction companies. In furtherance of this scheme, the co-conspirators sent false invoices to the city for payment to Reliable Concrete Construction (RCC), a company owned by the Hardins. Once paid by the city, the money was then deposited into an account held by Roger and Zachary Hardin. The complaint further alleges that the Hardins would then make cash payments to Wykoff. Invoices were presented and paid at least 24 times over a two and one half year period. Wykoff received 33 percent of each fraudulent invoice. The cash returned to Wykoff were alleged kickbacks for his approval of the invoices. The case involved projects for concrete work to be performed on Rogers Street and College Avenue. The investigation is ongoing and the final amount of loss has not yet been determined. These arrests come at a time when the United States Attorney’s Office and the Federal Bureau of Investigation have significantly increased efforts to root out public corruption. In April of 2012, Hogsett announced the formation of the U.S. Attorney’s Office’s Public Integrity Working Group (PIWG), a collaborative effort between federal, state and local law enforcement agencies to rid Indiana of the “culture of corruption” that all too often rears its ugly head. Since its creation, the PIWG has charged 30 public officials for various crimes committed at the local, state and federal levels. Ten of the 30 charged are scheduled for trial in this upcoming year. Individual defendants include two former Indianapolis city-county councilors, the former chief deputy prosecutor of the Marion County Prosecutor’s Office, local police officers and sheriff’s deputies, township level officials, employees of the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles, as well as employees of the Internal Revenue Service and the United States Postal Service. “Our message has been consistent, but bears repeating: it doesn’t matter what your politics are or who you know,” Hogsett noted, “if you violate the public trust, our investigators will find you, will investigate you and the U.S. Attorney’s Office will then prosecute you to the fullest extent of the law.” FBI Special Agent in Charge Robert A. Jones stated, “Contract cheating in the form of bribery and conspiracy is public corruption that violates the trust of the community and unfairly burdens honest taxpayers. The FBI will continue to work with our law enforcement partners to preserve the integrity of public contracting.” According to Steven DeBrota, Senior Litigation Counsel for the United States Attorney’s Office and who is prosecuting the case for the government, Wykoff could face up to 10 years on each count if convicted. The Hardins could face five years if convicted. The investigation is being conducted by the FBI and the Bloomington Police Department, with assistance from the Monroe County Prosecutor’s Office. A complaint is only a charge and not evidence of guilt. A defendant is presumed innocent and is entitled to a fair trial at which time the government must prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption TOPEKA, KS—A federal grand jury indictment returned here today charges a former Kansas legislator with bank fraud and alleges some of the money went into his political account, U.S. Attorney Barry Grissom said today. Trent K. LeDoux, 40, Holton, Kansas, is charged with three counts of bank fraud and two counts of money laundering. The alleged crimes took place in 2011 and 2012 while LeDoux was a member of the Kansas House of Representatives. The indictment alleges LeDoux received three loans—$106,600, $175,500, and $183,000—from Farmers and Merchants Bank of Colby, Kansas. He told the bank he was going to use all the funds to purchase cattle that would serve as collateral on the loans. In fact, he did not intend to use all the funds to buy cattle but to pay off existing debts and to make contributions to his political account. In two money laundering counts, the indictment alleges LeDoux transferred $15,000 on December 31, 2011, and $12,000 on August 1, 2012, to his campaign account. The indictment seeks a monetary judgment of $465,100. If convicted, he faces a maximum penalty of 30 years in federal prison and a fine up to $1 million on each count of bank fraud, and a maximum penalty of 10 years and a fine up to $250,000 on each count of money laundering. The FBI investigated. Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard Hathaway is prosecuting.
corruption LITTLE ROCK—Christopher R. Thyer, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Arkansas, and David Resch, Special Agent in Charge of the Little Rock Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, announced today that a federal jury found former Arkansas State Treasurer Martha Ann Shoffner, age 68, of Newport, guilty on six counts of extortion under color of official right, one count of attempted extortion under color of official right, and seven counts of receipt of a bribe by an agent of a state government receiving federal funds. A forfeiture allegation of $4,020 is also included in the indictment. Martha Shoffner was elected as treasurer for the state of Arkansas in 2006 and 2009. The United States presented testimony that historically, the treasurer’s office had used between 10 and 15 bond brokers throughout the state to purchase federal agency bonds for investment. During Shoffner’s first term in office, the bond inventory levels between the brokers was relatively comparable. In mid-2010, Shoffner approached Steele Stephens, a broker with St. Bernard Financial, and requested that he purchase a house in Little Rock for her to stay in free of charge, but Stephens feared such an arrangement would be discovered. As an alternative, Shoffner suggested that Stephens make payments of $1,000 per month to her. Ultimately, it was agreed that he would pay Shoffner $6,000 every six months. In mid-2010, Stephens made the first $6,000 payment to Shoffner at the Capitol, resulting in Stephens’ bond inventory increasing above that of other brokers for the State of Arkansas, ultimately reaching over $600 million in bond inventory in August 2012. In total, Stephens received approximately $2 billion in bond business, earning approximately $2.5 million in commissions. Stephens made a total of six payments of $6,000 from mid-2010 through December 2012. Two payments were made at the Capitol, two payments were made at Shoffner’s Little Rock residence, and two payments were made at Shoffner’s home in Newport, Arkansas. Stephens testified that he concealed the $6,000 payments in a pie box when he delivered money to Shoffner in Newport, Arkansas. In January 2013, Stephens began cooperating with the Federal Bureau of Investigation. As part of his cooperation, he recorded a meeting with Shoffner at her home in Newport, Arkansas, wherein Shoffner acknowledged the agreement regarding the $6,000 payments and receipt of payments. Shoffner also admitted to lying during the September and December 2012 legislative audit hearings about receiving money from Stephens and would take it to her grave. In May 2013, Stephens delivered an apple pie to Shoffner with $6,000 in FBI funds in the pie box. After the broker left Shoffner’s house, special agents with the FBI executed a search warrant at Shoffner’s house. Shoffner had taken the cash out of the pie box and placed it in a cigarette box in a kitchen drawer. She also told the FBI that she still had $4,020 from the December 2012 payment hidden in a cigarette box. Shoffner was arrested. Testimony also presented that in September 2009 and November 2010, Stephens provided cash for campaign events, which was not reported by Shoffner on her campaign finance reports. According to testimony, Shoffner kept the cash and never deposited it into her campaign account. The statutory penalty for extortion and attempted extortion under color of official right, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1951(a), is not more than 20 years’ incarceration in the Bureau of Prisons with a possible fine of up to $250,000, and not more than three years’ supervised release. The statutory penalty for receipt of a bribe by an agent of a state government receiving federal funds, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 666(a)(1)(B), is not more than 10 years’ incarceration in the Bureau of Prisons with a possible fine of up to $250,000, and not more than three years’ supervised release. The investigation was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
corruption HATTIESBURG, MS—William Walker, 68, of Ocean Springs, pled guilty today in U.S. District Court to conspiracy to commit federal program fraud, announced U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis and FBI Special Agent in Charge Daniel McMullen. Walker admitted conspiring with his son, Scott Walker, to divert federal grant monies in a scheme that resulted in the federal grant monies being used to unlawfully purchase Scott Walker’s personal property in Ocean Springs, Mississippi. “Today’s guilty plea holds accountable a former high ranking state official for his criminal acts of misappropriating federal grant funds” said U.S. Attorney Davis. “This guilty plea brings us one step closer to restoring the confidence of the citizens of south Mississippi in the Department of Marine Resources.” William Walker will be sentenced on June 5, 2014 at 1:00 p.m. by U.S. District Judge Keith Starrett in Hattiesburg. The maximum penalty for conspiracy is five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation with assistance from the Mississippi State Auditor’s Office. Criminal Division Chief John Dowdy, Assistant U.S. Attorney Jerry Rushing and Assistant U.S. Attorney Jay Golden are prosecuting the case.
corruption ROCKFORD—The former energy director for the city of Rockford was sentenced today in federal court by U.S. District Judge Frederick J. Kapala for mail fraud. Mark E. Bixby, 58, of Rockton, Illinois, was sentenced to 14 months in federal prison, to be followed by three years of supervised release, and was ordered to pay restitution in the total amount of $41,618.33 to the two victims. Judge Kapala immediately remanded Bixby to the custody of the U.S. Marshals Service to begin serving his sentence. Bixby pled guilty on November 21, 2013, admitting that between December 2006 and March 2010, he defrauded a heating contractor and window contractor, both of whom did work under the weatherization program for the city’s energy division, by causing them to provide funds and benefits to him through false representations and pretenses. According to the written plea agreement, Bixby, as the energy director, managed the city of Rockford’s energy division. The energy division operated the Illinois Home Weatherization Assistance Program in Winnebago and Boone Counties. The purpose of the weatherization program was to help low-income residents save energy and money by providing services that included repairing and replacing heating systems, windows, and doors. According to the plea agreements, the funds and benefits Bixby obtained from the two contractors included the following: (1) use of a new 2007 red two-door convertible Pontiac Solstice; (2) a total of $18,440 in donations to “charities,” which were deposited into bank accounts controlled by Bixby and a family member and which were used to pay their personal expenses; (3) $2,980 for the “sale” of cemetery plots by Bixby to the heating contractor; and (4) a $2,000 “loan” from the window contractor, which Bixby never repaid. The sentencing was announced by Zachary T. Fardon, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois, and Robert J. Holley, Special Agent in Charge of the Chicago office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The Winnebago County State’s Attorney’s Office and the Rockford Police Department assisted in the investigation. The government was represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Mark T. Karner.
corruption WASHINGTON—Jeffrey E. Thompson pleaded guilty today to felony charges stemming from a scheme in which he and his companies secretly channeled more than $3.3 million in illegal contributions to at least 28 political candidates and their campaigns, including people running for the offices of president of the United States and mayor of the District of Columbia. The guilty plea was announced by U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen Jr.; Valerie Parlave, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office; and Richard Weber, Chief of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI). Thompson, 58, of Washington, D.C., pleaded guilty in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, to two conspiracy charges. One is a federal offense: conspiring to violate federal campaign finance laws and to submit false filings to the Internal Revenue Service. The other is a District of Columbia offense: conspiring to violate District of Columbia campaign finance laws by defrauding the District of Columbia’s Office of Campaign Finance. The guilty plea calls for Thompson to cooperate fully in an ongoing investigation. The plea is contingent upon the approval of the Honorable Colleen Kollar-Kotelly. A sentencing date has not yet been set. In his guilty plea, Thompson admitted, among other things, to secretly channeling more than $668,800 to pay for campaign activities for a person identified in court documents as “Mayoral Candidate A,” a candidate in the 2010 mayoral race in the District of Columbia. He also admitted secretly channeling $608,750 to pay for efforts on behalf of a candidate in the 2008 presidential primary. In addition, he admitted secretly supporting others through illegal corporate contributions, excessive and unreported contributions, and conduit contributions. *** “Election after election, Jeff Thompson huddled behind closed doors with corrupt candidates, political operatives, and businessmen, devising schemes to funnel millions of dollars of corporate money into local and federal elections,” said U.S. Attorney Machen. “Today’s guilty plea pulls back the curtain on years of widespread corruption. With Mr. Thompson’s cooperation, we have the opportunity to hold many wrongdoers accountable and to usher in a new era of honesty, integrity, and transparency in D.C. politics.” “Today, Mr. Thompson took responsibility for organizing a lengthy conspiracy that illegally channeled more than $3 million into federal and local campaigns dating back to the 2006 election cycle,” said Assistant Director in Charge Parlave. “The message we are sending today is clear. While the temptation to undermine the election process may be strong, you will not get away with it. Together with our law enforcement partners, the FBI will be unwavering in combating corruption in the District of Columbia.” “Jeffrey Thompson engaged in behavior that blatantly ignored and directly circumvented clearly established campaign financing laws, but his egregious behavior did not stop there. Thompson then directed TCBA, a company under his control, to file false corporate income tax returns and submit false documents to the IRS to cover his misdeeds” said IRS-CI Chief Weber. “Today’s actions involving Mr. Thompson serve as a strong reminder of the commitment of IRS Criminal Investigation and our law enforcement partners to aggressively pursue those attempting to undermine the public’s trust.” “Jeffrey Thompson engaged in behavior that blatantly ignored and directly circumvented clearly established campaign financing laws, but his egregious behavior did not stop there. Thompson then directed TCBA, a company under his control, to file false corporate income tax returns and submit false documents to the IRS to cover his misdeeds” said IRS-CI Chief Weber. “Today’s actions involving Mr. Thompson serve as a strong reminder of the commitment of IRS Criminal Investigation and our law enforcement partners to aggressively pursue those attempting to undermine the public’s trust.” *** Thompson is the former chairman, chief executive officer, and majority owner of Thompson, Cobb, Bazilio and Associates (TCBA), a corporation that provided accounting, management, consulting, and tax services. He also is the former chairman, chief executive officer, and owner of D.C. Healthcare Systems, Inc. (DCHSI), an investment holding and for-profit corporation. In his guilty plea today, he admitted using funds from those corporations to secretly finance campaign contributions and activities from at least 2006 until 2012. TCBA received millions of dollars under contracts with District of Columbia and federal government entities. DCHSI owned D.C. Chartered Health Plan, Inc. (Chartered), a corporation that contracted with the District of Columbia government to provide managed care services to a substantial number of District of Columbia residents. Chartered’s contract with the District of Columbia, paid primarily by the federal government, totaled about $300 million each year. Five others have pleaded guilty since 2012 to charges involving Thompson’s illegal spending. Two others have pleaded guilty in a related investigation involving the 2010 mayoral election. If accepted by the court, Thompson’s plea calls for a sentence of up to 18 months in prison on the federal offense and a sentence of up to six months of incarceration for the District of Columbia offense. If the government determines at the time of sentencing that Thompson has complied with his obligations under the plea agreement, the U.S. Attorney’s Office will request that the court dismiss the federal charge, leaving Thompson subject to up to six months in prison on the District of Columbia offense, to be followed by up to three years of supervised release. *** According to a statement of offense signed by the government as well as the defendant, Thompson and others carried out a scheme to use TCBA and DCHSI to disburse excessive and unreported contributions to pay for campaign services and campaign materials in coordination with and in support of political candidates, such as get-out-the-vote efforts. The nature of these coordinated, or in-kind, contributions, also known as “shadow campaigns,” took several forms, including the distribution and dissemination of campaign materials in support of political candidates and their campaign committees. Additionally, Thompson solicited individuals, including relatives, friends, employees, independent contractors, and the senior management of TCBA, to make conduit contributions in their names and the names of their relatives to campaign committees for federal and District of Columbia candidates, as well as a political action committee. He assured these individuals that he would arrange to pay for and otherwise reimburse the contributions. Thompson used personal and corporate money to advance funds and reimburse individuals for the political contributions that they made in their names and the names of their relatives. In some cases, he authorized and directed TCBA to make payments variously designated as salary, bonus payments, advances on bonuses, and consultant fees, all designed to disguise the fact that the funds were actually reimbursements for contributions. According to the statement of offense, Thompson and others took actions that caused TCBA to file false corporate income tax returns and submit false documents to the IRS. Thompson and a TCBA controller caused TCBA to wrongfully deduct TCBA’s reimbursements to conduit contributors on tax returns for the years 2007 through 2010. Also, he and two TCBA officers knowingly executed false promissory notes to conceal TCBA’s activities, and caused the false documents to be submitted to the IRS during an audit of the company. *** District of Columbia Campaigns: More Than $2.29 Million According to the statement of offense, from 2006 until 2011, Thompson secretly provided more than $1.3 million for the off-the-books, or “shadow campaigns,” on behalf of seven candidates seeking office in the District of Columbia. He also secretly spent more than $130,000 for a voter registration drive on behalf of one candidate and agreed to pay another candidate $200,000—along with other benefits—to withdraw from the 2006 mayoral race. The largest such shadow campaign financed “Mayoral Candidate A” in the 2010 mayoral election. During the primary election cycle for mayor of the District of Columbia, from May 2010 through September 2010, Thompson used TCBA and DCHSI to funnel over $668,800 to pay for campaign services and materials in support of a shadow campaign for “Mayoral Candidate A,” who was challenging the incumbent mayor. Most of this money went for a get-out-the-vote effort for the primary. For example, using funds provided by Thompson and in consultation with a volunteer advisor for the candidate, individuals were paid to manage field operations and transportation related to the shadow campaign. Among other things, these individuals worked directly with, shared canvassing information with, shared workspace with, and coordinated operations with employees and agents of the official campaign for “Mayoral Candidate A,” including those managing get-out-the-vote efforts. The money also paid for expenses such as the hiring of the candidate’s official campaign driver; the leasing of a luxury sport utility vehicle to take the candidate to campaign-related and other events; and the purchase of posters, yard signs, T-shirts, and other campaign materials. In addition to the 2010 mayoral race, the statement of offense says that Thompson funded shadow campaigns for candidates running in the 2006 mayoral election; the 2007 special election for the Ward 4 seat on the Council of the District of Columbia; the 2008 election for an At-Large seat on the D.C. Council; the 2010 elections for Ward 1 and Ward 6 of the D.C. Council, and the 2011 special election for an at-large seat on the D.C. Council. According to the statement of offense, Thompson secretly spent about $278,000 for a shadow campaign for a person described as “Mayoral Candidate B,” a candidate in the 2006 mayoral primary. In that same race, according to the statement of offense, Thompson agreed to pay a competing candidate $200,000 to drop out and endorse “Mayoral Candidate B.” Thompson also entered into a $150,000 consulting agreement with the competing candidate on behalf of TCBA. Also, between 2006 and 2011, Thompson utilized at least 75 conduits to make contributions to at least 15 mayoral and D.C. Council candidates in excess of $500,000. *** Federal Campaigns: More Than $1 Million From February 2008 through May 2008, according to the statement of offense, Thompson used TCBA and DCHSI to funnel about $608,750 to fund a shadow campaign for a candidate running for president of the United States. The money was used for, among other things, the hiring of a marketing services company, as well as for street teams and canvassers who supplemented the campaign’s official activities in Texas, Pennsylvania, Indiana, North Carolina, and Puerto Rico. The services included assembling and organizing paid street teams and canvassers to disseminate and distribute campaign materials prepared by the presidential campaign, including posters, lawn signs, pamphlets and stickers. The agreed-upon goal of these efforts was to raise the campaign’s visibility during the 2008 presidential primary election cycle. Thompson also secretly provided $50,000 to help a civic organization pay for a lawsuit in Texas challenging the two-step voting process in that state, in which voters were allowed to vote twice, once in a primary and once in a caucus. He also provided $150,000 for a political demonstration organized by the civic organization in Washington, D.C. The funds for the lawsuit and the demonstration were to assist the campaign of the preferred presidential candidate. However, there is no indication that the presidential candidate was personally aware of Thompson’s illicit activities. Also, between 2006 and 2012, Thompson utilized at least 32 conduits to make contributions to at least 13 federal candidates and a political action committee of at least $250,000. *** In announcing the plea, U.S. Attorney Machen, Assistant Director in Charge Parlave and Chief Weber commended the work of those who investigated the case from the FBI’s Washington Field Office and IRS-CI. They also expressed appreciation for the work of Assistant U.S. Attorneys Michael K. Atkinson, Loyaan A. Egal, Ellen Chubin Epstein, Lionel André, Jonathan P. Hooks, Ephraim “Fry” Wernick and Ted Radway, of the Fraud and Public Corruption Section of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia, who are prosecuting the case.
corruption CHARLESTON, WV—A former chief magistrate is the latest defendant sentenced to federal prison time in a probe of corruption in Mingo County, West Virginia, United States Attorney Booth Goodwin announced today. Dallas Toler, 45, of Delbarton, West Virginia, was sentenced to 27 months’ imprisonment. Last December, Toler admitted in federal court that he falsified a voter registration application during the 2012 primary election campaign. Toler faked the application so that a convicted felon, still on probation and thus barred from voting, could vote for Toler’s Team Mingo faction. “Voters deserve clean elections and honest public officials,” said U.S. Attorney Goodwin. “Politicians have to follow the law like everybody else. When they forget that, they need to pay the price. Today’s sentence is an important reminder that no one is above the law.” United States District Judge Thomas E. Johnston, who imposed today’s sentence, emphasized the need to send a strong deterrent message in light of Mingo County’s history of public corruption. Toler pleaded guilty in December 2013 and was released on bond while awaiting today’s sentencing. Last month, however, Goodwin’s office successfully asked to have Toler’s bond revoked, citing evidence that Toler was part of a conspiracy to distribute cocaine. According to prosecutors, shortly after resigning from office as a requirement of his plea agreement, Toler began bankrolling a local cocaine dealer. The dealer became a confidential informant for investigators after local police caught him using Toler’s car to attempt to transport cocaine. In January of this year, the informant recorded Toler accepting profits from the sale of cocaine and making plans for future cocaine distribution. At a February 13 hearing on the bond revocation motion, Toler declined to contest prosecutors’ allegations of his drug activity, and Judge Johnston revoked Toler’s bond. Toler has been in federal custody since then. Toler joins former Mingo County Commissioner David Baisden as the second official sentenced to prison in a wide-ranging corruption probe led by Goodwin’s office. Baisden received a 20-month prison sentence in January. He admitted that he tried to extort a discounted set of tires from an Appalachian Tire store in Williamson, West Virginia. When Appalachian officials refused Baisden’s demand, he punished them by cutting off tens of thousands of dollars of county business that otherwise would have gone to Appalachian. Two more former Mingo officials are set to be sentenced next month. Former circuit judge Michael Thornsbury will be sentenced April 21, and former county prosecutor C. Michael Sparks will be sentenced April 24. Both officials pleaded guilty last year in a scheme to force George White, a local drug defendant, to change lawyers after they learned that White and his lawyer were informing the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) of alleged crimes committed by then-sheriff Eugene Crum. A criminal defendant has a constitutionally protected right to counsel of his choosing. All four officials charged to date in the federal investigation have been required to resign from office. The investigation of Toler’s election fraud was conducted by the FBI and the West Virginia State Police (WVSP), with assistance from the West Virginia Secretary of State’s office. Toler’s drug-distribution activity was investigated by the FBI, the WVSP, the Mingo County Sheriff’s Department and the Williamson Police Department. Counsel to the United States Attorney Steven R. Ruby and Assistant United States Attorney C. Haley Bunn are in charge of the prosecution.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, and George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office, announce that Ana Alliegro, 44, of Granada, Nicaragua, was arrested and brought back to the United States from Nicaragua, having been previously indicted for having violated the Federal Election Campaign Act in connection with the Democratic Party primary election for Florida’s 26th Congressional District. Alliegro’s initial appearance is scheduled for March 10, 2014 at 1:30 p.m. before U.S. Magistrate Judge Patrick White. The indictment charges Alliegro with engaging in a conspiracy to make false statements to the Federal Election Commission and to violate the contribution limits of the Federal Election Campaign Act (Count 1); making a false statement (Count 2); and making illegal campaign contributions (Counts 3 & 4). If convicted, Alliegro faces a maximum term of up to five years in prison on each count and a fine of up to $250,000 on each count. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI’s Miami Area Corruption Task Force; the Legal Attaché Panama City, Panama; and Diplomatic Security Service. The case is being prosecuted by Senior Litigation Counsel Thomas J. Mulvihill. An Indictment is only an accusation and a defendant is presumed innocent until proven guilty.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida; George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office; and Jose A. Gonzalez, Special Agent in Charge, Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI), announce the filing of charges against Russell S. Adler, 52, of Ft. Lauderdale. The defendant is alleged to have conspired to violate the Federal Election Campaign Act while a shareholder of the former Fort Lauderdale law firm of Rothstein, Rosenfeldt and Adler, P.A. (RRA). According to the criminal information filed with the court earlier today, the defendant was an attorney who was designated as a shareholder of RRA. He was charged with one count of conspiracy to violate the Federal Election Campaign Act and to defraud the United States, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371. If convicted, the defendant faces a maximum statutory sentence of up to five years in prison. The information charges that in order to circumvent campaign finance laws setting limitations on the amounts which donors can contribute, Rothstein enlisted some of the attorneys and administrative personnel of RRA, and other persons associated with RRA, including Adler, to make political contributions to various political campaigns which were unlawfully reimbursed to them by RRA. U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer stated, “The Federal Election Campaign Act is designed to limit financial influence in the election of candidates. Russell Adler blatantly ignored and circumvented clearly established campaign finance laws in an effort to increase the stature and apparent political power of RRA. The information filed today against Adler holds him accountable for his acts. Adler is now the seventh attorney and seventeenth accomplice to be held accountable in Rothstein’s $1.2 billion Ponzi scheme.” “According to these charges, Russell S. Adler sought to undermine the campaign finance process and will now have to answer for his decision to do so,” said George L. Piro, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Miami. “This investigation is not over.” IRS-CI Special Agent in Charge Jose A. Gonzalez stated, “The defendant made contributions to the presidential primary campaign of John McCain and the United States Senate campaign of Charlie Crist, which were unlawfully reimbursed by RRA. Today’s action demonstrates our collective efforts to enforce the law and ensure public trust. This investigation is not over as we are committed to ‘following the money trail’ and pursuing the evidence wherever it leads.” Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI and IRS-CI. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Lawrence D. LaVecchio, Paul F. Schwartz, and Jeffrey N. Kaplan. An information is only an accusation and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption A former Highland Park police officer was sentenced to prison today for taking a $10,000 bribe and for conspiring with three other police officers to protect shipments of cocaine, U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade announced today. McQuade was joined in the announcement by FBI Special Agent in Charge Paul M. Abbate. During a hearing today before U.S. District Judge Avern Cohn, Price Montgomery, 40, of Detroit, Michigan, was sentenced to 18 months in prison and two years of supervised release based on his plea of guilty to conspiring to accept bribes and to commit extortion. Montgomery, an officer with the Highland Park Police Department for two years, accepted a $10,000 bribe from a man he had arrested on gun charges in return for agreeing not to appear as a witness at the man’s November 2012 criminal trial. Montgomery accepted the bribe with his partner, former police officer Anthony Bynum. Montgomery and Bynum failed to appear at the trial, and the charges were dismissed. Later, Montgomery, Bynum, and two other Highland Park police officers accepted cash from an FBI informant in exchange for protecting a shipment that contained what the officers believed were four kilograms of cocaine. The officers used their police guns and badges to protect the shipment. The sentencing of Montgomery completes the case against the four former Highland Park police officers. Defendant Craig Clayton was sentenced to 12 months in prison on June 27, 2013. Defendant Shawn Williams was sentenced to 15 months in prison on October 8, 2013. Defendant Bynum was sentenced to 18 months in prison on November 7, 2013. United States Attorney McQuade said, “The court’s sentence today sends a strong message that public officials who use their positions of trust to personally profit will be punished. Police officers who take bribes and use their badges to make money will go to prison.” “Government officials who breach the public trust for their own selfish purposes—regardless of who they are—will be pursued aggressively and brought to justice,” said Paul M. Abbate, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI Detroit Field Office. “Today’s sentence sends another message that corrupt police officers who accept bribes and use their positions for personal financial gain will be punished.” The case was investigated by agents of the FBI. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys David A. Gardey.
corruption In El Paso today, 32-year-old former El Paso Police Officer and El Paso County Constable Billy Jack Barrow was sentenced to two years in federal prison on a drug conspiracy charge, announced United States Attorney Robert Pitman and Federal Bureau of Investigation Special Agent in Charge Douglas E. Lindquist. In addition to the prison term, Senior U.S. District Judge David Briones ordered that Barrow pay a $500 fine and be placed under supervised release for a period of two years after completing his prison term. Judge Briones also ordered that Barrow surrender to federal authorities on or before May 9, 2014, to begin serving his prison term. On October 31, 2013, Barrow pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute cocaine. By pleading guilty, Barrow admitted to tipping off co-conspirators about bar checks and other law enforcement operations while serving as an El Paso County Constable from January 2010 through September 2012. This investigation was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Drug Enforcement Administration, together with the El Paso Police Department and the El Paso County Sheriff’s Office. Assistant United States Attorney John Gibson prosecuted this case on behalf of the government.
corruption Earlier today, sitting New York State Assemblyman William F. Boyland, Jr. was convicted by a jury at the federal courthouse in Brooklyn, New York, of 21 felony counts, including federal programs bribery, conspiracy to commit federal programs bribery, conspiracy to violate the Travel Act and commit federal programs bribery, extortion, extortion conspiracy, honest services wire fraud, conspiracy to commit honest services wire fraud, federal programs theft, and conspiracy to commit mail fraud. Boyland committed each of these offenses by corruptly exploiting his public position representing the 55th Assembly District in Brooklyn, which is composed of Ocean Hill, Brownsville, Bedford-Stuyvesant, Crown Heights, and Bushwick. Upon his convictions, Boyland was automatically expelled from the Assembly. When sentenced, Boyland faces prison terms of up to 20 years on each of the extortion, extortion conspiracy, honest services wire fraud, honest services wire fraud conspiracy, and mail fraud conspiracy counts; up to 10 years on each of the federal programs bribery and federal programs theft counts; and up to five years on each of the other conspiracy counts. Following his convictions, the Honorable Sandra L. Townes, who presided over the trial, ordered Boyland remanded into custody pending his sentencing on June 30, 2014. Boyland is also subject to up to at least $250,000 in fines on each of the counts of conviction, as well as criminal forfeiture and mandatory restitution. The convictions were announced by Loretta E. Lynch, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, and George Venizelos, Assistant Director in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation, New York Field Office. “The breadth and pervasiveness of the corruption exposed by this prosecution is staggering. Wherever there was an opportunity for William Boyland to corruptly line his own pockets, he took it. By soliciting bribes, by stealing funds intended to help the elderly, and by defrauding New York State and the Assembly, Boyland cravenly pursued his own interest at the expense of his constituents. In doing so, Boyland not only broke the law but broke faith with the public he was elected to serve. Today’s verdict ensures that Boyland will be held accountable for his corrupt actions,” stated United States Attorney Lynch. “When our elected officials engage in self-dealing, when they abdicate their responsibilities, when they succumb to greed, the average citizen pays for it dearly, and our democratic system suffers on so many levels. The verdict sends a clear message that we and our partners in the FBI will vigorously investigate and prosecute any public official who trades on a position of power to line his own pocket.” United States Attorney Lynch praised the hard work and dedication of the FBI agents who investigated the case and expressed her thanks to the New York State Comptroller’s Office, the New York State Office of the Aging, the Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation Division, the New York State Assembly Department of Finance, and the New York City Department of Investigation for their assistance with the investigation. The evidence admitted at trial proved that, beginning in January 2007 and continuing through December 2011, Boyland engaged in four separate corrupt schemes, ranging from soliciting and accepting over $250,000 in bribe payments, to submitting false travel vouchers to New York State, to stealing state funds intended for the elderly: Carnival Scheme Boyland extorted and accepted over $14,000 in bribes in exchange for undertaking official action to benefit a carnival promoter (the “promoter”) and an undercover FBI agent. Specifically, in August 2010, Boyland met with the Promoter and this undercover FBI agent (UC1) on multiple occasions in New York City and discussed the desire of the promoter and UC1 to hold carnivals in Boyland’s district, for which they needed government approvals. During those meetings, Boyland requested payments in exchange for assisting the promoter and UC1, and the promoter and UC1 agreed. Boyland also described various ways in which the bribes could be disguised to hide their true purpose. After these meetings, Boyland directed his Assembly staff to assist the promoter and UC1 in their efforts to gain government approvals. Boyland then represented to the promoter and UC1 that he and his staff (i) engaged in discussions with government agencies to assist the Promoter in obtaining carnival-related leases and permits and (ii) arranged for a non-profit organization to sponsor the Promoter’s carnivals. Boyland also directed his staff to give the promoter letters of support, on Boyland’s Assembly letterhead, that the promoter needed in order to operate carnivals in Boyland’s district. In exchange, UC1 paid Boyland three separate bribes: $7,000 in cash; a $3,000 check with the “payee” line left blank; and $3,800 worth of money orders that were deposited into Boyland’s campaign bank account. As was shown to the jury during the trial, Boyland was captured on videotape personally accepting the $7,000 cash bribe at his district office. Real Estate Scheme Boyland also accepted the $7,000 cash bribe described above in exchange for undertaking official action to benefit UC1 and a second undercover FBI agent (UC2) in a purported real estate venture in Boyland’s district. Specifically, Boyland proposed a brazen scheme in which UC1 and UC2 would purchase the former St. Mary’s Hospital in Boyland’s district for $8 million, obtain state grant money to renovate the hospital, and resell it for $15 million to a non-profit organization that Boyland claimed to control. Boyland assured UC1 and UC2 that he would use his influence as an assemblyman to secure state grant money for the project and handle any zoning issues that arose. After accepting the $7,000 cash bribe described above, Boyland was later recorded demanding an additional $250,000 bribe payment from UC1 and UC2 as a condition of using his official position to realize the real estate scheme he had proposed. Recordings of meetings in hotel rooms in Atlantic City and New York City where Boyland discussed the real estate scheme revealed that he recognized the scheme’s corrupt and illegal nature and sought to conceal his own involvement. At the meeting in the hotel in Atlantic City, Boyland stated, “I got a middle guy by the way...I gotta stay clean...I got a bag man....” Boyland further explained that he did not want to talk on the telephone and preferred in-person meetings: “I stopped talking on the phone a while ago...I’m just saying there is no real conversation that you can have...especially with what we’re talking about.” At the meeting in the hotel room in New York City, Boyland reiterated that he wanted UC1 and UC2 to pay him a $250,000 bribe in exchange for the St. Mary’s Hospital project. When UC2 instead countered Boyland’s demand by offering to pay Boyland $5,000 for introductions to other government officials who would be involved in the project, Boyland rejected the counter-proposal, stating that the people whom Boyland could introduce to UC1 and UC2 were worth more than $5,000: “I’m not talking about $5,000 folks. I’m talking about...people that can actually get these projects done.” False Voucher Scheme From January 2007 to December 2011, Boyland stole New York State funds by submitting false New York State Assembly Member Travel Vouchers (vouchers). Boyland submitted over two hundred fraudulent vouchers where he falsely claimed to be in Albany on legislative business when he in fact was not in Albany, including days when Boyland was in New York City meeting with the undercover FBI agents and demanding $250,000 in bribes; days when he was in North Carolina and Virginia visiting with family and friends; and for days when he was in Istanbul, Turkey. In reliance on Boyland’s false Vouchers, New York State paid Boyland more than $70,000 in fraudulent mileage expense reimbursements and per diem payments. Theft of State Funds for the Elderly From July 2007 to September 2010, Boyland conspired to defraud New York State and the New York State Office of the Aging (NYSOA). Boyland, a member of the Assembly’s Committee on the Aging, steered $200,000 of New York State “member item” funds to a Brooklyn-based non-profit organization whose mission, as described on its website, was to provide a “social setting that enable[s] elderly individuals to maintain their independence and remain at home in the community.” Notwithstanding his certification, in writing to the NYSOA that these state funds would not be used for any partisan or political purpose, Boyland directed that the majority of these $200,000 in state funds be used for the benefit of Boyland and his political campaigns by paying for community events that promoted Boyland such as a Senior Lunch Cruise on the Spirit of New York Cruise Line, a fireworks show, and a large end of the summer picnic held at a park in his district, as well as goods that promoted Boyland, such as “Team Boyland” T-shirts distributed at those community events. The government’s case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Christina B. Dugger, Robert L. Capers and Lan X. Nguyen. Defendant Willia F. Boyland, Jr. Age: 43 Residence: Brooklyn, New York Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption PITTSBURGH—Two former enlisted Guardsmen at the 171st Air Refueling Wing in Coraopolis, Pennsylvania have been charged with defrauding the United States Air Force and the Air National Guard of hundreds of thousands of dollars in military pay and benefits, United States Attorney David J. Hickton announced today. A 110-count indictment, charging conspiracy, honest service wire fraud, false claims, and theft of government property, named Gerard J. Mangis, 59, of Village Road, Glenshaw, Pennsylvania, (Shaler Township), as the sole defendant. According to the government, Mangis, a colonel and former vice-wing commander at the 171st Air Refueling Wing, conspired with Robert St. Clair, a contract employee at the National Guard Bureau at Andrews Air Force Base, to defraud the United States Air Force in false claims for military pay between 2002 and 2011. Mangis is also charged with a scheme to defraud the United States Air Force by enlisting St. Clair in a “no show” job at the 171st, for which in exchange Mangis received military workdays. In an information filed by the government, Robert St. Clair, 50, of Bel Air, Maryland, is charged with one count of conspiracy, eight counts of false claims, and one count of theft of government property. According to the bill of information, between 2002 and 2011, St. Clair conspired with Mangis at the 171st Air Refueling Wing to defraud the United States by accepting a “no show” enlistment position as a “contracting specialist” at the 171st in exchange for St. Clair providing military work days to Mangis. “These cases involve two public officials who engaged in a corrupt, mutually beneficial scheme for personal gain,” stated U.S. Attorney Hickton. “Investigating and exposing corruption, wherever it occurs, is a priority of the U.S. Attorney’s Office and the FBI, and we are fully committed to prosecuting violators of the public trust regardless of position, title or rank.” “The FBI will continue to aggressively pursue allegations of government fraud in order to root out those who are in the position to abuse their power and defraud the Unites States,” said SAC Perdue. “The indictment of Colonel Mangis demonstrates Pittsburgh FBI’s commitment in that endeavor.” The law provides for a maximum total sentence per count of five or 20 years in prison, a fine of $250,000, or both. Under the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, the actual sentence imposed would be based upon the seriousness of the offenses and the prior criminal history, if any, of the defendant. The indictment charging Gerard J. Mangis was returned under seal on March 4 and unsealed today following Mangis’ arrest this morning at his home. He made an Initial Appearance before a federal magistrate judge Wednesday afternoon. He was released on $10,000 unsecured bond. The Information charging Robert St. Clair was filed today. He will be ordered to appear before a U.S. District Judge at a date and time not yet determined. Assistant United States Attorney Gregory C. Melucci is prosecuting this case on behalf of the government. The United States Air Force Office of Special Investigations and the Federal Bureau of Investigation conducted the investigation leading to the charges in these cases. An indictment is an accusation. An Information is a determination that probable cause exists to believe that offenses have been committed by a defendant. All defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption WASHINGTON—The Department of Justice has frozen more than $458 million in corruption proceeds hidden in bank accounts around the world by former Nigerian dictator Sani Abacha and conspirators. A civil forfeiture complaint unsealed today in the United States District Court in the District of Columbia seeks recovery of more than $550 million in connection with the largest kleptocracy forfeiture action brought in the department’s history. The restraint of funds announced today includes approximately $313 million in two bank accounts in the Bailiwick of Jersey and $145 million in two bank accounts in France. In addition, four investment portfolios and three bank accounts in the United Kingdom with an expected value of at least $100 million have also been restrained, but the exact amounts in the accounts will be determined at a later date. Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and Assistant Director in Charge Valerie Parlave of the FBI’s Washington Field Office made the announcement. “General Abacha was one of the most notorious kleptocrats in memory, who embezzled billions from the people of Nigeria while millions lived in poverty,” said Acting Assistant Attorney General Raman. “This is the largest civil forfeiture action to recover the proceeds of foreign official corruption ever brought by the department. Through our Kleptocracy Initiative, we are seizing the assets of foreign leaders who steal funds that properly belong to the citizens they serve. Today’s action sends a clear message: we are determined and equipped to confiscate the ill-gotten riches of corrupt leaders who drain the resources of their countries.” “We will not let the U.S. banking system be a tool for dictators to hide their criminal proceeds,” said Assistant Director in Charge Parlave. “This action demonstrates the FBI’s ability to combat international corruption and money laundering by seizing the assets of those involved. I want to thank the special agents, financial analysts, and prosecutors whose hard work over the years resulted in today’s announcement.” The over $458 million in frozen funds and the additional assets named in the complaint represent the proceeds of corruption during and after the military regime of General Abacha, who assumed the office of the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria through a military coup on November 17, 1993, and held that position until his death on June 8, 1998. The complaint alleges that General Abacha, his son Mohammed Sani Abacha, their associate Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, and others embezzled, misappropriated, and extorted billions from the government of Nigeria and others and then laundered their criminal proceeds through the purchase of bonds backed by the United States using U.S. financial institutions. As alleged in the complaint, General Abacha and others systematically embezzled billions of dollars in public funds from the Central Bank of Nigeria on the false pretense that the funds were necessary for national security. The conspirators withdrew the funds in cash and then moved the money overseas through U.S. financial institutions. General Abacha and his finance minister also allegedly caused the government of Nigeria to purchase Nigerian government bonds at vastly inflated prices from a company controlled by Bagudu and Mohammed Abacha, generating an illegal windfall of more than $282 million. In addition, General Abacha and his associates allegedly extorted more than $11 million from a French company and its Nigerian affiliate in connection with payments on government contracts. Funds involved in each of these schemes were allegedly laundered through the United States. The complaint seeks to forfeit bank accounts and investment portfolios with funds located in Bailiwick of Jersey, France, and the United Kingdom. On Feb. 25 and 26, 2014, U.S. arrest warrants for the assets were enforced in Jersey and France though mutual legal assistance requests and in the United Kingdom through litigation brought pursuant to the U.K. Civil Jurisdiction and Judgments Act. The complaint also seeks to forfeit five corporate entities registered in the British Virgin Islands. This case was brought under the Kleptocracy Asset Recovery Initiative by a team of dedicated prosecutors in the Criminal Division’s Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section, working in partnership with federal law enforcement agencies to forfeit the proceeds of foreign official corruption and, where appropriate, return those proceeds to benefit the people harmed by these acts of corruption and abuse of office. Individuals with information about possible proceeds of foreign corruption located in or laundered through the United States should contact federal law enforcement or send an e-mail to kleptocracy@usdoj.gov. The investigation was conducted by the FBI. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Elizabeth Aloi and Assistant Deputy Chief Daniel Claman of the Criminal Division’s Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section, with substantial support from the Criminal Division’s Office of International Affairs. The department appreciates the extensive assistance provided by the governments of Jersey, France, and the United Kingdom in this investigation.
corruption The former office manager of the Lake Forest Park Water District was sentenced today in U.S. District Court in Seattle to 27 months in prison, three years of supervised release, and more than $404,000 in restitution for wire fraud, announced U.S. Attorney Jenny A. Durkan. Between 2004 and 2011, Jackee Bormann-Zweekhorst, 41, engaged in a scheme to embezzle more than $350,000 from the small water district. The restitution amount includes more than $56,000 spent uncovering the seven-year fraud. At sentencing, Chief U.S. District Judge Marsha J. Pechman noted that Bormann-Zweekhorst embezzled “over and over and over again, for such a long period of time.” “This defendant made it her job to steal five to 10 percent of this community water district’s annual budget each year,” said U.S. Attorney Jenny A. Durkan. “Her scheme took plenty of time and effort, and she even used her children to further her fraud. She traded on the trust of her co-workers and must be held accountable.” According to records in the case, Bormann-Zweekhorst was responsible for submitting bills to King County for reimbursement from water district funds. Bormann-Zweekhorst was supposed to prepare the vouchers and supporting documents for the water district commissioners to review and approve. The approved vouchers then went to King County for payment. Bormann-Zweekhorst committed fraud through a variety of means. On multiple occasions, Bormann-Zweekhorst falsified time cards so that her children were paid for work never performed for the water district. Bormann-Zweekhorst then deposited most of this money into her own bank account. The amount of money claimed via the falsified time cards was in excess of $100,000. Bormann-Zweekhorst used the water district’s credit card to pay for personal items and then caused the payment of water district funds to pay the bill. Some of the expenses she billed to the water district card included college tuition for her child, hot tub parts and service, boating and automotive equipment, fishing gear, and rental car expenses. The amount of fraud on the water district credit card exceeded $90,000. Bormann-Zweekhorst also had the water district pay for personal items purchased with her American Express card and for other personal expenses by claiming the expenses were work-related, when in fact they were not. Many of the receipts submitted for reimbursement were fabricated to support purchases that never occurred. Bormann-Zweekhorst sought reimbursement for more than $70,000 in personal items and for items never purchased through this aspect of the fraud. Bormann-Zweekhorst also purchased personal items from water department vendors and had the water department pay the bill. “Local government agencies pledge a commitment to their communities and rely on their employees to uphold that commitment by providing honest services,” said Acting Special Agent in Charge W. Jay Abbott of the FBI’s Seattle Field Office. “As a steward of public funds, Ms. Zweekhorst took advantage of the community’s trust. For many years, she abused her position to operate a corrupt scheme intended to deceive the water district and its ratepayers. The FBI will continue to work with its valued partners to protect the American public from those who abuse their positions of trust.” The case was investigated by the FBI and the Lake Forest Park Police Department. Significant assistance is being provided by the Washington State Auditor’s Office. The case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Matthew Diggs. Press contact for the U.S. Attorney’s Office is Emily Langlie at (206) 553-4110 or Emily.Langlie@usdoj.gov.
corruption In Del Rio this afternoon, 35-year-old Hipolito Amaya, owner of AM-ROD Construction based in Eagle Pass, was sentenced to 41 months in federal prison for his role in connection with an alleged bribery, kickback, and bid-rigging scheme in Maverick County, announced United States Attorney Robert Pitman and Acting FBI Special Agent in Charge Aaron C. Rouse. In addition to the prison term, U.S. District Judge Alia Moses ordered that Amaya pay $35,800 restitution to Maverick County. Judge Moses also ordered that Amaya be placed under supervised release for a period of three years and must complete 500 hours of community service after completing his prison term. In October, Amaya pleaded guilty to a bribery charge. By pleading guilty, Amaya admitted that in May 2011, he submitted a $35,800 bid to Maverick County to construct a concrete sidewalk on Lago Vista in Precinct 4 of Maverick County. Maverick County issued him a $17,900 check to commence work and then a $17,900 check for the completion of the sidewalk. Amaya further admitted that he made cash payments to two Maverick County employees so that he could be paid in full for work he never performed. This ongoing investigation is being conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Texas Department of Public Safety. Individuals who have first-hand information about corruption, fraud, or bribery related to Maverick County are urged to contact the FBI at (210) 225-6741. Assistant United States Attorney Michael Galdo prosecuted this case on behalf of the government.
corruption The chief of staff for an unnamed Chicago alderman was charged with accepting a $7,500 bribe in return for assistance in obtaining the alderman’s letter of support for a license to sell alcohol in the alderman’s ward. Curtis V. Thompson allegedly accepted the cash bribe from an individual who claimed he wanted to open a convenience store but who, in reality, was a cooperating witness (CW1) working with the FBI in an undercover corruption probe that began in September 2012. The charge was announced today by Robert J. Holley, Special Agent in Charge of the Chicago Office of the FBI, and Zachary T. Fardon, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois. Thompson, 62, of the 4700 block of Greenwood, was charged with federal bribery in a criminal complaint filed under seal on February 26, 2014, in U.S. District Court and unsealed today. He is scheduled to appear this afternoon before U.S. Magistrate Judge Jeffrey Cole in the Dirksen Federal Courthouse. The complaint describes a series of phone conversations and face-to-face meetings between CW1 and various unidentified individuals as CW1 sought help in obtaining a liquor license. Those conversations and meetings resulted in an introduction between CW1 and Thompson on October 9, 2013, a meeting that was audio and video recorded. According to the complaint, CW1 and Thompson met to discuss a purported convenience store that would sell alcohol, and during the meeting, Thompson told CW1 of the alderman’s preference for a restaurant, as the ward was “heavily laden with liquor.” The complaint alleges that CW1 passed a note to Thompson that read, “$7,500 to the Ald. for L.O. S. [letter of support]” and that Thompson appeared to read the note and respond, “Okay. I understand. I understand.” Thompson then allegedly stated that he would bring it up with the alderman. The complaint also describes two subsequent meetings, on October 29 and November 19, 2013, at which CW1, Thompson, the alderman and others were present, to discuss the proposed convenience store. During the October 29 meeting, CW1 allegedly passed a note to the alderman that said, “12K to you for letter of support” and the note was passed from the alderman to another unidentified man at the meeting and then to Thompson. During the November 19 meeting, the alderman allegedly agreed to send as many letters of support as CW1 needed. According to the complaint, CW1 picked up a letter of support addressed to 7-Eleven Inc. from the alderman’s office, but the letter did not address the sale of alcohol. The complaint alleges that CW1 was subsequently solicited to donate to the alderman’s holiday toy drive and to co-sponsor the alderman’s Christmas party, both of which he agreed to do. The complaint further alleges that on December 10, CW1 traveled to the alderman’s office and received a letter of support on the alderman’s letterhead, addressed to 7-Eleven Inc., and signed in the name of the alderman, which read, in part, “Please allow this letter to serve as my full support for a 7-Eleven convenience store....This store will be a welcomed addition to [Alderman A’s ward] community and those that patronize the area for shopping and convenience needs. As well as wine and spirits (alcohol).” CW1 attended the alderman’s Christmas party on December 19 and, while walking out of the party with Thompson, allegedly gave Thompson a red envelope containing a Christmas card and 75 $100 bills. Thompson took the envelope from CW1, felt it deliberately, looked at it, and then placed it in a jacket pocket, saying, “Thanks,” according to the complaint. If convicted, bribery carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. The public is reminded that a complaint is not evidence of guilt and that all defendants in a criminal case are presumed innocent until proven guilty in a court of law.
corruption ALBANY, NY—Charles E. Fuller, 46, of Corinth, New York, a Saratoga County Deputy Sheriff, was charged today by criminal complaint with attempting to aid and abet the possession with intent to distribute 500 grams or more of cocaine, announced United States Attorney Richard S. Hartunian and Andrew W. Vale, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Albany Division. Fuller was arrested earlier today at the Saratoga County Sheriff’s Office and appeared before United States Magistrate Judge Christian F. Hummel at 3:00 p.m. A detention hearing is scheduled before United States Magistrate Judge Randolph F. Treece on March 3, 2014, at 2:00 p.m. If convicted, Fuller faces a maximum of 40 years in prison, a mandatory minimum period of imprisonment of five years, and a maximum fine of $5,000,000. The complaint alleges that on or about February 27, 2014, members of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, with the assistance of a FBI confidential source, arranged for a controlled delivery by Charles E. Fuller of what was purported to be one kilogram of cocaine. After Fuller transported the confidential source and one kilogram of a substance the confidential source claimed was cocaine from a location in Albany County to a location in Warren County, the FBI confidential source paid Fuller $4,000 in prerecorded currency. Fuller is alleged to have engaged in this conduct while he was off-duty. U.S. Attorney Hartunian said, “This is a difficult day for law enforcement in Saratoga County and beyond. The conduct by Deputy Sheriff Fuller alleged in the complaint constitutes a betrayal of both the citizens in the community that he is sworn to protect but also the countless honest and dedicated law enforcement officers who put their lives on the line every day to keep us safe. We will continue to work with the FBI and our state and local law enforcement officers to root out this conduct wherever it lies.” Special Agent in Charge Andrew W. Vale stated, “Corrupt law enforcement officers insult the many honorable officers who serve with integrity. Any law enforcement officer who violates his oath to protect the community and instead takes part in criminal activity should expect the same outcome as a criminal. The public has the right to be assured of the integrity of its public servants, in particular those charged with enforcing the law. Today’s arrest serves as a reminder that no one is above the law and that the FBI is committed to working with the law enforcement community to prevent the erosion of public trust that accompanies such incidents. I would like to extend my appreciation to Saratoga County Sheriff Zurlo for his cooperation throughout this investigation.” Saratoga County Sheriff Michael H. Zurlo stated, “The allegations against Fuller are an affront to and undermine the integrity of the hardworking men and women of the Saratoga County Sheriff’s Office. We will not tolerate corruption among our ranks. Our promise to the people of Saratoga County is that we will continue to work diligently to ensure that every member of this office deserves the respect and trust of our community.” A criminal complaint is merely a formal charge that a defendant has committed a violation of federal criminal law, and every defendant is presumed innocent until, and unless, proven guilty.
corruption COVINGTON, KY—The former executive director of a federally funded northern Kentucky drug task force has admitted he stole money that belonged to the task force. Timothy George Fegan, 52, pleaded guilty to one count of theft of government money. Fegan, who worked for the Buffalo Trace/Gateway Narcotics Task Force at the time, wrongfully took thousands of dollars from the organization over an extended period. Fegan acknowledged that he took cash proceeds that task force agents had seized during drug investigations and took money that the task force kept on hand to perform undercover drug buys. Between November 2011 and November 2012, the task force received approximately $150,000 in federal funding. Fegan admitted that he stole thousands of dollars in task force funds during this period. At sentencing, the vourt will determine the total amount of money that Fegan stole from the task force, during the period from December 31, 2009 to November 2012. The Buffalo Trace/Gateway Narcotics Task Force was organized by several county and city governments and was responsible for the investigation of drug crimes in various northern and eastern Kentucky counties. The task force was funded by federal and state grants and contributions from the county and city governments that formed the task force. The task force’s operations are based in Maysville, Kentucky, and Fegan worked for the task force during this period, including serving as interim executive director from December 31, 2009 through March 2010 and executive director from April 2010 until November 2012. The task force ceased its operations in early 2013. Kerry B. Harvey, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky, and Perrye Turner, Special Agent in Charge, FBI, jointly announced the guilty plea. The investigation was conducted by the FBI and the Kentucky State Police. Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew T. Boone is prosecuting this case for the U.S. Attorney’s Office on behalf of the federal government. Sentencing is scheduled for June 19, 2014. The theft of government money offense carries a maximum of 10 years in prison and a maximum fine of $250,000. The sentence will be imposed by the court after consideration of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and the applicable federal statutes.
corruption CHARLOTTE—Cherryville’s former Finance Director Bonny Verley Alexander was sentenced today in U.S. District Court for embezzling over $435,000 from the city, announced Anne M. Tompkins, U.S. Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina. Alexander, 59, pleaded guilty to five counts of program embezzlement for misappropriating city funds over a six-year period. U.S. District Judge Robert J. Conrad, Jr. sentenced Alexander to 24 months in prison, followed by two years of supervised release. He also ordered Alexander to pay restitution in the amount of $435,294.17. John A. Strong, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Charlotte Division, and Greg McLeod, Director of the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation (NC SBI), join U.S. Attorney Tompkins in making today’s announcement. According to the filed documents and facts presented at today’s sentencing hearing, from about August 2005 through her retirement in December 2011, Alexander embezzled at least $435,294 of Cherryville’s funds and used the money to pay for personal expenses. As Cherryville’s finance director, Alexander oversaw multiple departments and had access to city funds. Among other things, Alexander was in charge of processing payroll payments to city employees, directing payments for city expenses, and issuing checks on behalf of the city. Alexander also had access to Cherryville’s electronic accounting systems and was authorized to make adjustments as needed, court records indicate. Court documents show that Alexander made weekly payroll payments to herself that were more than 300 percent of her actual salary, totaling approximately $309,594. Alexander also issued city checks to pay for personal expenses, including shopping and travel expenses, charged on her personal credit card. According to filed documents, after issuing the city checks payable to American Express, Alexander forged on the checks the signature of another Cherryville employee who was the authorized signatory on the account. To conceal the fraud, once the forged checks had cleared and were returned by the bank, Alexander removed them from the city’s records. Alexander issued and forged 26 checks totaling approximately $97,000 to pay off personal charges on her American Express card. Alexander was ordered to self-report to the Federal Bureau of Prisons to begin serving her sentence upon designation of a federal facility. Federal sentences are served without the possibility of parole. The investigation into Alexander was handled by the FBI and SBI. The prosecution is handled by Michael Savage of the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Charlotte.
corruption TOPEKA, KS—U.S. Attorney Barry Grissom and Special Agent in Charge Michael Kaste of the FBI’s Kansas City Office announced today they are asking for the public’s help in combating fraud and public corruption in Kansas. The FBI has set up a toll-free public corruption hotline at 1-855-527-2847 (1-855-KCPCTIP) for reports from Topeka, Wichita, and throughout the state of Kansas. Reports also can be e-mailed to KCPCTIP@ic.fbi.gov. “Crooked public officials undermine the public’s trust in our government,” Grissom said. “They dishonor the many honest and hard-working men and women who serve the public at all levels of government. With the FBI’s hotline, everyone can have a hand in fighting public corruption.” Kaste said that the FBI already has received many tips with valuable information from the hotline and the e-mail address, which were rolled out first in Kansas City in November. “In cases of public corruption, the public’s help makes a significant difference, and the establishment of this hotline supplies the necessary tools to provide that help,” said SAC Kaste. Kaste said the FBI’s top criminal priority is to address public corruption at all levels of government. Many times, these crimes are difficult to detect because of their secretive nature, and they are even more difficult to prove without the assistance of concerned citizens. Accepting a bribe for awarding a contract, taking a kickback for providing a permit or inaction by law enforcement for payment are examples of public corruption. A violation of federal law, public corruption includes bribes, embezzlement, racketeering, kickbacks, and money laundering, as well as wire, mail, bank, and tax fraud—all of which occur at the public’s expense. The hotline number will also be featured on Lamar billboards within the Topeka area. Details regarding the various types of public corruption investigated by the FBI can be found online at: http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/investigate/corruption
corruption ABINGDON, VA—A former correctional officer at United States Penitentiary Lee County pled guilty today in the United States District Court for the Western District of Virginia in Abingdon to charges that she smuggled tobacco and other products into the federal correctional facility in exchange for cash. Kimberlee Crabtree, 43, of Jonesville, Virginia, waived her right to be indicted and pled guilty today to a one-count Information charging her with accepting a bribe as a public official. Crabtree faces a potential maximum sentence of up to 15 years’ imprisonment and a potential fine of up to $250,000. “Ms. Crabtree accepted bribes from a federal prisoner and provided him with contraband including tobacco products and a cellular telephone,” United States Attorney Timothy J. Heaphy said today. “Her actions threatened institutional security and put staff and inmates at risk. We will do all we can to ensure that our federal prisons are safe and secure and aggressively pursue both inmates and correctional officers who violate the rules.” According to evidence presented at the guilty plea hearing by Assistant United States Attorney Zachary T. Lee, between August 2013 and November 2013, Crabtree was employed as a correctional officer and nurse for the United States Bureau of Prisons at United States Penitentiary Lee County, Virginia, in Jonesville, Virginia. During this time, Crabtree received multiple monetary payments, totaling at least $2,500, from an inmate at the penitentiary in return for Crabtree smuggling tobacco products and a cell phone into the penitentiary. These items were then provided to the inmate in violation of Bureau of Prisons regulations. Sentencing has been set for May 27, 2013, in the United States District Court for the Western District of Virginia in Abingdon. The investigation of this case was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, United States Bureau of Prisons Special Investigative Service at United States Penitentiary Lee County, and the United States Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General. Assistant United States Attorney Zachary T. Lee is prosecuting the case for the United States.
corruption CHARLOTTE, NC—Two former law enforcement officers, Frankie Dellinger and Wesley Clayton Golden, and their civilian co-conspirator, Mark Ray Hoyle, were sentenced to prison today for their role in a conspiracy to transport stolen goods and cash in Gaston County, announced Anne M. Tompkins, U.S. Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina. John A. Strong, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Charlotte Division, and Greg McLeod, Director of the State Bureau of Investigation (NC SBI) join U.S. Attorney Tompkins in making today’s announcement. U.S. District Court Judge Robert J. Conrad, Jr. ordered Dellinger, 42, of Cherryville, a police officer who served 19 years in law enforcement with the Cherryville Police Department and the Gaston County Sheriff’s Office, to serve 36 months in prison, followed by two years of supervised release. Golden, 41, also of Cherryville and a reserve captain at the Gaston County Sheriff’s Office, was sentenced to 20 months in prison and to one year of supervised release. Their civilian accomplice, Mark Ray Hoyle, 40, of Cherryville, was ordered to serve 21 months in prison and two years under court supervision. In January 2013, the defendants pleaded guilty to conspiracy to transport and/or receive stolen property and conspiracy to extort under color of official right. Hoyle and Dellinger also pleaded guilty to money laundering conspiracy. According to filed court documents and today’s sentencing hearing, an undercover federal investigation revealed that beginning in August 2012 and on multiple occasions, Dellinger and Golden used their law enforcement credentials to provide “protection” to tractor trailers passing through Gaston County, containing what they defendants believed to be stolen merchandise and cash. Hoyle assisted in the conspiracy by representing himself to be a deputy sheriff at the Gaston County Sheriff’s Department. File documents and facts presented at today’s sentencing hearings showed that the former officers and their co-conspirator believed the trailers were transporting “stolen” merchandise with a purported retail value of more than $158,000, as well as cash proceeds from the sale of the stolen goods in excess of $400,000 and agreed to safeguard the trailers in exchange for cash payments. In November 2013, two former Cherryville police officers involved in a similar conspiracy arising from the same investigation received prison sentences. Casey Justin Crawford and David Paul Mauney, III, were sentenced to 33 and 18 months in prison, respectively. A sixth defendant, John Ashley Hendricks, was sentenced to two years of probation. In handing down today’s sentences, U.S. District Judge Robert J. Conrad, Jr. noted that “corruption of the highest is the worst type of corruption.” The defendants have been in federal custody since October 2012. They will be transferred to the custody of the Federal Bureau of Prisons upon designation of a federal facility. All federal sentences are served without the possibility of parole. The investigation is handled by the FBI and SBI. The prosecution was handled by Michael Savage, of the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Charlotte.
corruption LONDON, KY—A former mayor of Martin, Kentucky and her daughter have been convicted on all counts by a federal jury of charges related to a scheme to defraud the Social Security Administration (SSA) and to misapply federal funds. On Tuesday night, the jury convicted former Martin Mayor Ruth Thomasine Robinson, 69, and her daughter, Rita Christine Whicker, 42, who formerly directed the Martin Community Center. The verdict was handed down after approximately two hours of deliberation following two days of trial. Specifically, the jury convicted the defendants on a total of eight counts of conspiracy, federal program fraud, theft of Social Security disability benefits, and aggravated identity theft. Ginger Michelle Halbert, 42, a volunteer city employee who worked closely with Robinson, pled guilty last week to a charge of theft of government money. Charges against Ethel Clouse, the city bookkeeper, were dismissed at trial. Evidence at trial established that from 2006 until January 2013, Halbert, who purportedly worked on a volunteer basis, was secretly being paid with federal funds. The funds used to pay Halbert were intended for the Martin Community Center and the Martin Housing Authority. Some of the money was supposed to fund an after school program for city children. To conceal the scheme, the defendants allegedly arranged for the checks to be made payable to Halbert’s son. Evidence further established that Halbert, who was receiving social security disability benefits, intentionally failed to notify SSA of her earned income from the city of Martin. Under federal law, anyone who receives disability benefits is limited in the amount of money he or she can receive from another source and all income must be reported to the SSA so it can properly determine eligibility for benefits. Kerry B. Harvey, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky; Perrye Turner, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Guy Fallen, Special Agent in Charge, Social Security Administration, Office of the Investigator General, Office of Investigations; and Jack Conway, Attorney General of Kentucky, jointly made the announcement today. The investigation was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Social Security Administration, and the Attorney General’s Office. Assistant U.S. Attorney Ken Taylor is prosecuting this case for the U.S. Attorney’s Office on behalf of the federal government. Sentencing for Robinson and Whicker is scheduled for July 9, 2014. Halbert is scheduled for sentencing on June 6, 2014. The conspiracy offense carries a maximum of five years in prison; misappropriating money from a federal program carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison, and aggravated identity theft has a mandatory minimum penalty of two years in prison.
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, announced that Steven Thomas, 39, of Mashantucket, was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge Janet Bond Arterton in New Haven to one day of imprisonment, time already served, for stealing from the Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Government. Thomas also was ordered to serve two years of supervised release, the first three months of which must be served in home confinement, and to pay restitution of $177,603.69. According to court documents and statements made in court, Thomas served as the assistant director of the Office of Natural Resources Protection, an agency of the Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Government. As an employee of the tribal government, Thomas was required to complete and submit time cards on a weekly basis to the Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation (MPTN) documenting that he reported to work for 40 hours each week. However, Thomas was a “no-show” employee and rarely reported to work or performed work of any kind. Between January 2007 and January 2008, Thomas submitted false weekly time cards to the MPTN that falsely reported the hours he worked. During that period, Thomas was paid approximately $177,603.69 by the MPTN based upon the false weekly time cards. On October 3, 2013, Thomas pleaded guilty to one count of theft from an Indian tribal government. Thomas resigned his position as treasurer of the Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Council in advance of his guilty plea. This matter was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the U.S. Department of Interior-Office of Inspector General. The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Christopher M. Mattei and Douglas P. Morabito.
corruption Between 2009 and 2012, those willing to pay anywhere from $500 to $2,500 to corrupt DMV employees could get a license with no questions asked. A (Driver’s) License to Steal Corruption in a San Diego Motor Vehicle Office 02/25/14 You could call this scam a license to steal, and it certainly was—until it all came crashing down on the corrupt state employees and their accomplices who were selling California driver’s licenses for cash. For at least three years, though, between 2009 and 2012, the scammers had a nearly seamless operation that netted a tidy profit. Here’s how it worked: A man who owned a driving school let his students know that—for a price—he could guarantee them a license, even if they had already failed the driving test. Often they didn’t even have to take the test, thanks to the man’s connections at the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) office in El Cajon, California.   An Ongoing Case The investigation into widespread corruption and bribery at the El Cajon DMV office is still active. Anyone with information about corruption at the DMV is asked to contact the FBI at 1-877-NO-BRIBE (662-7423), the DMV’s Investigations Branch-Office of Internal Affairs at (626) 851-0173, or submit a tip online.   Those willing to pay anywhere from $500 to $2,500 to corrupt DMV employees could get a license with no questions asked. The driving school catered mostly to Middle Eastern immigrants, and soon word of easy licenses in that community spread north to Los Angeles and beyond. “One guy flew in from Dallas, took a cab to the DMV office, paid for his license, and flew back to Dallas a few hours later,” said Special Agent Mike Peters, who investigated the case with Special Agent Kim George out of our San Diego Division. “It was so blatant,” Peters said, “that our surveillance showed the driving school operator brokering multiple deals in the DMV parking lot.” “They had gotten away with it for so long,” added George, “that they were extremely confident and had no plans to stop.” Court records indicate that the group—which included Kuvan Piomari, who owned the U.S. Driving School in El Cajon; Jeffrey Bednarek, a DMV examiner who conducted driving tests; and three other DMV employees—took part in the long-running bribery conspiracy that produced hundreds of ill-gotten licenses. An image from surveillance video shows a DMV employee accepting cash from a license applicant. In exchange for bribes, Bednarek falsely entered passing scores for written and behind-the-wheel tests for applicants seeking regular and commercial driver’s licenses. He enlisted other DMV employees to falsify records as well. Bednarek produced more than 100 fraudulent driver’s permits, for which applicants paid a total of more than $50,000. Sometimes the corrupt DMV employees would issue multiple bogus licenses a day, George said. “They would leave work with $500 in cash in their pocket. That could be one day a week or two. They were doing very well.” When a new manager arrived at the El Cajon DMV office, however, “she instantly realized that something wasn’t right,” Peters said. The new manager alerted the DMV’s investigative arm, who in turn called the FBI. Using undercover operatives and court-authorized surveillance and wiretaps, investigators quickly uncovered the scam. Some of the “candidates” who paid for licenses were bad drivers, George explained, “and some paid because they were just too lazy to take the test.” Peters added that some candidates had paid for commercial licenses that allowed them to drive tanker trucks. “That took things to a different level in terms of public safety,” he said. In all, 30 defendants have been charged with conspiracy to commit bribery and identification document fraud, and all have pled guilty. The case is ongoing (see sidebar). Bednarek is scheduled to be sentenced in April. Another DMV employee, Jim Bean, was sentenced to 18 months in prison for his role in the scheme. “We hope this case sends a message,” Peters said. “This type of corruption will not be tolerated.” Resources: - Press release - 21 Defendants Charged for Corruption at Two Southern California DMV Offices
corruption PHILADELPHIA—Former Philadelphia Police Officer Jeffrey Walker pleaded guilty today to a scheme in which he planned to rob a drug dealer while on official duty. Walker pleaded to attempted robbery that interferes with interstate commerce and carrying a firearm during and in relation to a crime of violence. Walker told a cooperating witness (CW) that he wanted the CW to help him identify a drug dealer so that Walker could conduct a car stop for suspected drug violations or plant drugs in the car. On May 21, 2013, the CW informed Walker of a car parked outside a bar on West Girard Avenue. Walker drove up to the car, placed drugs inside the car, and then followed the driver when that person left the bar. When the car was pulled over, Philadelphia Police, including Walker, took the key to the driver’s home. Walker and the CW went to the driver’s home. When they exited the home, Walker was arrested and was in possession of $15,000 that he had taken from the house. U.S. District Court Judge Eduardo C. Robreno scheduled a sentencing hearing for May 21, 2014. Walker faces an advisory sentencing guideline range of up to 10 years in prison. The case was investigated by the FBI and Philadelphia Police Department. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Anthony Wzorek.
corruption HOUSTON—Augustine Ihenacho Nnadi, aka Austin, 60, of Houston, has been arrested for accepting a bribe in exchange for assistance in an ongoing health care fraud case, announced United States Attorney Kenneth Magidson. The FBI arrested Nnadi this morning shortly after officers with the Texas Attorney General’s Office confiscated his credentials and terminated his employment. Nnadi is expected to make his initial appearance before U.S. Magistrate Judge Nancy Johnson at 2:00 p.m. today. The criminal complaint, filed today, alleges Nnadi accepted more than $5,000 on February 16, 2014, from a criminal defendant in exchange for assistance on a pending health care fraud case. He is charged with bribery concerning programs receiving federal funds. If convicted, he faces up to 10 years’ imprisonment and a possible $250,000 fine. The operation was a combined, cooperative effort conducted by the FBI, the Texas Rangers, and the Medicaid Fraud Control Unit of the Texas Attorney General’s Office. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney James McAlister. A criminal complaint is a formal accusation of criminal conduct, not evidence. A defendant is presumed innocent unless and until convicted through due process of law.
corruption ATLANTA—Dwayne Penn, formerly a police officer with the Clayton County Police Department assigned to the U.S. Marshals Service Fugitive Task Force, was sentenced today to 10 years of prison for conspiring to distribute cocaine. “The public rightfully expects police officers to protect them from drug dealers, not go into business with them,” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. “The defendant crossed over to become one of the bad guys, and now he will suffer their fate.” Ricky Maxwell, Acting Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated, “The FBI, as the lead investigative agency and coordinating body for the Atlanta Public Corruption Task Force consisting of numerous local, state, and other federal agencies, regards all public corruption matters, in particular those involving law enforcement officials, to be a priority investigative matter. As such, the FBI asks that anyone with information regarding such activity to contact their nearest FBI field office.” Harry S. Sommers, the Special Agent in Charge of the DEA Atlanta Field Division, commented, “It is always disturbing when someone in a position of trust such as a law enforcement officer tarnishes the badge by violating his or her oath. Law enforcement officers are held to a higher standard, and any misconduct that they engage in will not be tolerated. Penn’s actions were deplorable, and he is deserving of the sentencing handed down today.” According to United States Attorney Yates, the charges, and other information presented in court, in August 2013, Penn, who was employed with the Clayton County Police Department at the time, conspired with Adrian Austin, an Atlanta-based drug dealer, to use Penn’s official position as a police officer to stage a fake traffic stop of a car that he and Austin believed would contain six kilograms of cocaine, conduct a fake arrest of the car’s occupant, seize the cocaine for themselves, and then sell the cocaine, sharing their ill-gotten gains. Fortunately, the person whom Penn and Austin sought to recruit for this corrupt endeavor was cooperating with federal law enforcement and agreed to record his/her meetings with Penn and Austin. In the lead up to the fake arrest and seizure, Penn and Austin met face-to-face with the confidential informant on two separate occasions to plan their operation. Penn drove his police car to the planning meetings. While together, Penn, Austin, and the confidential informant discussed the confidential informant obtaining cocaine from his/her drug source of supply. Penn would then conduct a fake traffic stop and arrest of the confidential informant in front of the source, using Penn’s police vehicle and lights, and seize the cocaine, leading the source to mistakenly believe the drugs had been seized by law enforcement. They would divide up the seized cocaine among themselves according to the plan. As part of the charade, Penn agreed to handcuff the confidential informant, put the drugs in the trunk of his police car, and drive the confidential informant to a second location. During one of the meetings, Penn even drove Austin and the confidential informant around the parking lot, scouting out possible spots for various events the next day. Penn reassured the confidential informant that they could cover his/her tracks with the source of supply to deflect suspicion. As planned, on the morning of August 28, 2013, Penn and Austin arrived at the appointed Decatur parking lot. Penn drove his police car and parked it in view of where the drug deal was to occur. While waiting, Penn ran the tags of a number of vehicles in the area through law enforcement databases. Penn also called task force officers with the DeKalb County Police Department and DeKalb County Sheriff’s Office and asked if DeKalb County had any surveillance vehicles that fit the description of vehicles Penn saw in the parking lot that morning. Penn rebuffed offers of assistance from his fellow officers, claiming he was just doing surveillance. Before the deal’s consummation, the confidential informant met with Austin in Austin’s car in the parking lot. Austin relayed information between the confidential informant and Penn over his cell phone. The confidential informant and Austin discussed the imminent deal, with the confidential informant’s describing where s/he would put the drugs after receiving them. The confidential informant exited Austin’s car and shortly thereafter met with the supposed drug dealer (also a law enforcement source) in the parking lot in view of Penn. The confidential informant received a shopping bag containing six kilogram-size bricks of fake cocaine, walked back to his/her vehicle, and placed the bag inside, placing two kilogram bricks in the back seat and leaving the remaining four kilogram bricks in the shopping bag in the front seat. After the confidential informant emerged from his/her vehicle, Penn sped over in his police car with the lights on and blocked the confidential informant from leaving. Penn jumped out of his car with his firearm drawn and pointed it at the confidential informant. Penn was wearing a bulletproof vest, which read “Police,” and a black baseball hat. Penn ordered the confidential informant to get on the ground and to keep his/her “hands behind your back,” which the confidential informant did. Penn holstered his firearm, picked up the confidential informant from the ground, and patted him/her down. Penn then ushered the confidential informant into Penn’s police car. The confidential informant told Penn that s/he had already taken his/her two and that there were four in the bag. Penn walked over to the confidential informant’s vehicle and removed the shopping bag with the four kilogram bricks from the front seat, leaving the confidential informant’s share (two kilograms) in the car. Penn placed the shopping bag in the trunk of his police car, told the confidential informant to “get out of here,” and drove away with the cocaine-like substance, leaving the confidential informant and the two kilogram bricks behind at the parking lot. Penn and Austin were arrested shortly afterward in the vicinity of the Decatur parking lot. Each had a loaded firearm with a round in the chamber. The shopping bag with substituted cocaine was recovered from Penn’s vehicle. On August 28, 2013, Penn was terminated from the Clayton County Police Department and the Marshals Service Task Force. Penn pleaded guilty to conspiring to distribute over five kilograms of cocaine, pursuant to a negotiated plea agreement, on January 21, 2014. His codefendant, Adrian Austin, pleaded guilty to the same charge on January 14, 2014. In addition to the ten10-year term of imprisonment, Penn was also sentenced by United States District Judge Amy Totenberg to five years of supervised release, 120 hours of community service following his release from prison, and ordered to pay a $100 special assessment. Sentencing for Austin is scheduled for April 10, 2014, at 2:00 p.m. also before United States District Judge Totenberg. The case is being investigated by special agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Drug Enforcement Administration. Assistant United States Attorney Scott Ferber is prosecuting the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Presse-mails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia is www.justice.gov/usao/gan.
corruption LOS ANGELES—Ronald Calderon, a member of the California State Senate, has agreed to surrendered to federal authorities on Monday after being named in a federal grand jury indictment that accuses him of taking tens of thousands of dollars in bribes from a businessman and from people who were associated with a Hollywood film studio but who were in actuality undercover FBI agents. Ronald S. Calderon, 56, of Montebello, is charged in a 24-count indictment that was returned late yesterday by a federal grand jury with mail fraud, wire fraud, honest services fraud, bribery, conspiracy to commit money laundering, money laundering, and aiding in the filing of false tax returns. The indictment also charges Thomas M. Calderon, 59, also of Montebello, who is Ronald’s brother and a former member of the California State Assembly. Along with his brother, Thomas Calderon is charged in the money laundering conspiracy and with seven substantive counts of money laundering. Tom Calderon self-surrendered this morning after being informed of the indictment and is expected to be arraigned this afternoon in United States District Court. Ron Calderon is travelling and has agreed to surrender Monday morning. Ron Calderon’s arraignment will be Monday afternoon. The indictment describes a scheme in which Ron Calderon allegedly solicited and accepted approximately $100,000 in cash bribes—as well as plane trips, gourmet dinners, and trips to golf resorts—in exchange for official acts, such as supporting legislation that would be favorable to those who paid the bribes and opposing legislation that would be harmful to them. The indictment further alleges that Ron Calderon attempted to convince other public officials to support and oppose legislation. “Public corruption is a betrayal of the public trust that threatens the integrity of our democratic institutions,” said United States Attorney André Birotte, Jr. “Senator Calderon is accused of accepting tens of thousands of dollars in bribes and using the powers of his elected office to enrich himself and his brother Tom, rather than for the benefit of the public he was sworn to serve.” Bill Lewis, the Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Los Angeles Field Office, stated, “Corruption victimizes each and every one of us. The indictment alleges Mr. Calderon traded influence for cash in the 30th District and beyond. In addition to robbing us of taxpayer money, corrupt practices rob us of trust in government.” In the first part of the bribery scheme, Ron Calderon allegedly took bribes from Michael Drobot, the former owner of Pacific Hospital in Long Beach, a major provider of spinal surgeries that were often paid by workers’ compensation programs. California law allowed the hospital to pass on to insurance companies the full cost it had paid for medical hardware it used during spinal surgeries. In another case filed this morning, Drobot admitted that his hospital exploited this law, which was often called the “spinal pass-through,” by using hardware that had been purchased at highly inflated prices from companies that Drobot controlled and passing this cost along to insurance providers. Drobot allegedly bribed Ron Calderon so that he would use his public office to preserve this law that helped Drobot maintain a long-running and lucrative health care fraud scheme. While the corruption indictment does not implicate Ron Calderon in the health care fraud scheme, Ron Calderon is charged with taking bribes from Drobot to preserve the spinal pass-through law. The indictment specifically alleges that Drobot bribed Ron Calderon by hiring Calderon’s college-age son to work as a file clerk at his company and paying him approximately $30,000 over the course of three summers. Ron Calderon’s son showed up for only about 15 days of work each summer, according to the indictment, which also accused Ron Calderon of accepting plane trips, golf outings, and expensive dinners from Drobot. Ron Calderon allegedly arranged meetings between Drobot and other public officials and helped Drobot attempt to persuade the other legislators to keep the spinal pass-through law in effect. In another case filed this morning in United States District Court, Drobot has agreed to plead guilty to charges of conspiracy and paying illegal kickbacks. In his plea agreement, Drobot admits paying bribes to Ron Calderon. In another part of the bribery scheme, Ron Calderon allegedly solicited and accepted bribes from people he thought were associated with an independent film studio, but who were in fact undercover FBI agents. Ron Calderon solicited and accepted bribes in exchange for supporting an expansion of a state law that gave tax credits to studios that produced independent films in California. The Film Tax Credit applied to productions of at least $1 million, but, in exchange for bribes, Ron Calderon agreed to support new legislation to reduce this threshold to $750,000, according to the indictment. The indictment specifically alleges that Ron Calderon agreed to support the new Film Tax Credit legislation in exchange for his daughter being paid $3,000 a month for a job he knew she simply did not perform. According to the indictment, Ron Calderon took several official actions with respect to reducing the threshold for the Film Tax Credit. Ron Calderon signed an official letter indicating that he supported a lower threshold, he met with other state senators to discuss the benefits of lowering the threshold, and he “caused legislation to be introduced in the Senate, which he intended to use as a vehicle to create a separate tax credit,” according to the indictment. In addition to the nearly $40,000 paid to his daughter, Ron Calderon allegedly solicited from the undercover FBI agents payments that included $5,000 for his son’s college tuition and $25,000 to Californians for Diversity, a non-profit political organization operated by Tom Calderon. Both Calderons face money laundering charges for allegedly funneling bribe money through Californians for Diversity and Tom Calderon’s consulting firm, some of which went to Ron Calderon and his daughter. Ron Calderon faces two tax fraud charges for allegedly helping in the preparation of false tax returns that fraudulently claimed business expense deductions in relation to the money his son received from Drobot. Joel P. Garland, the Acting Special Agent in Charge for IRS Criminal Investigation’s Los Angeles Field Office, commented, “Ronald and Thomas Calderon were granted the privilege of political office to better the lives of the citizens they represented, but instead Ronald Calderon used his office to commit bribery, tax, and other crimes for their own selfish benefit. Today’s actions reaffirm our commitment to this joint agency task force and our pursuit of justice. Public officials hold a position of trust and those who commit bribery, tax fraud, and other crimes, take note.” An indictment contains allegations that a defendant has committed a crime. Every defendant is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty in court. If Ron Calderon were to be convicted of the 24 charges in the indictment, he would face a statutory maximum sentence of 396 years in federal prison. If Tom Calderon is convicted of the money laundering charges alleged in the indictment, he would face a statutory maximum sentence of 160 years in prison. The investigation into the Calderons was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and IRS-Criminal Investigation.
corruption SAN DIEGO—Mexican businessman Jose Susumo Azano Matsura was charged in an indictment unsealed today with making an illegal campaign contribution to a San Diego mayoral candidate. Azano, 48, was arrested by FBI agents at his Coronado home Wednesday morning. He was arraigned in federal court this afternoon before U.S. Magistrate Judge Mitchell D. Dembin. Today’s indictment makes it clear that Azano was the foreign national responsible for the $120,000 illegal campaign contribution to a San Diego mayoral candidate referred to in prior court records. According to federal law, it is illegal for a foreign national to donate to political campaigns in the U.S. Also charged in related cases are San Diego lobbyist Marco Polo Cortes, former San Diego Police detective Ernesto Encinas and Ravneet Singh, owner of the campaign services company known as ElectionMall Inc., which is also charged as a corporate entity. According to court documents, Cortes, Singh, and Encinas conspired to funnel more than $500,000 of illegal foreign money into San Diego municipal and federal campaigns, primarily in 2012 and 2013. The source of the illegal foreign money, the court records said, was a person referred to as “the Foreign National.” The $120,000 sum in the Azano indictment is the same transaction described in a January 21, 2014 complaint that charges Cortes with conspiracy to finance political campaigns using money from an illegal foreign source. That complaint says, “Using money that the Foreign National had given him, the straw donor wrote a $120,000 check from one of his corporation’s bank accounts to an independent expenditure committee that favored Candidate 3.” The “straw donor” is still identified in court records only as a La Jolla businessman who acted as a conduit for large campaign donations from the Foreign National. According to a February 18 grand jury indictment charging Cortes, Singh, and his company, ElectionMall Inc., “after directing the Straw Donor to write checks in favor of certain campaigns, the Foreign National would reimburse him.” That indictment also describes a “war room” created by Singh, Cortes, and another co-conspirator within the campaign offices of an unidentified mayoral candidate, “for the purpose of making unreporterd in-kind contributions financed by the Foreign National.” The straw donor and candidates are not identified because they have not been charged as members of the conspiracy. Defendant in Case Number: 14cr388MMA Jose Susumo Azano Matsura Age: 48 Coronado, California Summary of Charges Count one: campaign contribution by a foreign national—Title 2, U.S.C., Sections 437g (d) (1) (A) (i) and 441e (A) (1). Maximum penalties: Up to five years in prison and $250,000 fine Investigating Agencies Federal Bureau of Investigation Internal Revenue Service San Diego Police Department Indictments and complaints are not evidence that the defendant committed the crime charged. All defendants are presumed innocent until the United States meets its burden in court of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption In Del Rio today, 64-year-old Saul Lombrano, owner and operator of Fiesta Contractors based in Eagle Pass, admitted to paying a bribe in order to receive a Maverick County construction contract, announced United States Attorney Robert Pitman and Acting FBI Special Agent in Charge Aaron C. Rouse, San Antonio Division. Appearing before United States District Judge Alia Moses this afternoon, Lombrano pleaded guilty to one count of paying a bribe to an agent of an organization receiving federal funds. By pleading guilty, Lombrano admitted that in March 2011, he submitted a $14,500 bid to construct 155 linear feet of concrete drain swell on Rafael Street in Precinct 1. After being awarded the contract, Lombrano never constructed the concrete drain swell but requested and received full payment for the project. Of the $14,500 he received, Lombrano admittedly only kept $5,000 while giving the rest to a Maverick County employee as a bribe. Lombrano faces up to 10 years in federal prison, a maximum $250,000 fine and restitution to be determined by the court. He remains on bond pending sentencing which has yet to be scheduled. This ongoing investigation is being conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Texas Department of Public Safety. Individuals who have first-hand information about corruption, fraud, or bribery related to Maverick County are urged to contact the FBI at (210) 225-6741. Assistant United States Attorneys Michael Galdo and Bryan Reeves are prosecuting this case on behalf of the government.
corruption The former director of the Cleveland and Dayton VA Medical Center pleaded guilty today to a scheme to enrich himself by working as a consultant for and taking money and other things of value from a design firm bidding on VA jobs and sharing confidential information about construction projects while still employed by the VA, law enforcement officials said. William D. Montague, 61, of Brecksville, pleaded guilty to 64 counts, including Hobbs Act conspiracy, conspiracy to commit honest services mail fraud, violating the Hobbs Act, money laundering, multiple counts of wire fraud, mail fraud, disclosing public contract information, and other charges. Montague is scheduled to be sentenced on May 20. He agreed to pay more than $390,000 to satisfy restitution and forfeiture requirements “As a Veterans Affairs Medical Center Director, William Montague misled staff and misused his position to enrich himself and businesses pursuing contracts with the agency,” said Stephen D. Anthony, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Cleveland Field Office. “We are pleased with the acceptance of responsibility by Mr. Montague, along with the significant forfeiture amount to be returned to the Department of Veteran’s Affairs.” “Today’s guilty plea is the result of a two-year investigation conducted by special agents of the Cleveland Veterans Affairs Office of Inspector General and the Federal Bureau of Investigation,” said Gavin McClaren, U.S. VA Office of Inspector General, Resident Agent in Charge, Cleveland. “We will continue to protect taxpayers against those who would enrich themselves at the expense of our nation’s veterans.” Montague served as director of the Cleveland VA Medical Center from 1995 until February 3, 2010. On March 11, 2011, Montague began working as director of the Dayton VA Medical Center, a position he held through December 17, 2011, according to the indictment. The superseding indictment details interactions between Montague and a company identified as Business 75, an integrated design firm with offices throughout the United States, including New York, Illinois, Virginia, Missouri, and California. The company performed work for the VA directly and through its participation in joint ventures and other teaming agreements, according to the indictment. From January 2010, Montague, Business 75, and employees of the company conspired to defraud the VA of its right to the honest and faithful service of Montague through bribery and kickbacks and to defraud the VA and other potential VA contractors by means of false and fraudulent pretenses, according to the indictment. Montague secretly used his position as Dayton VA Medical Center director to enrich himself and his designees (including House of Montague, a financial services company Montague operated) by soliciting and accepting gifts, payments, and other things of value from Business 75 in exchange for favorable official actions, according to the indictment. Montague solicited money and a consulting contract from Business 75 in exchange for information related to VA contracts and projects, which would benefit Business 75, Business 75’s principal and their designees, according to the indictment. This was done to give Business 75 an advantage in obtaining VA contracts and projects. Montague gave false and misleading information to VA employees about his reasons for requesting VA documents and information, according to the indictment. For example, on March 1, 2011, Business 75 issued a $20,000 check payable to Montague, which he deposited into the House of Montague’s account. Ten days later, Business 75’s principal sent an e-mail to some employees with Montague’s consulting agreement explaining: “His job is to help us bring in more work from the VA, in part by helping us access key decision makers,” according to the indictment. On March 14, 2011, Business 75’s principal sent another e-mail to some employees stating that Business 75 will end the current “$15 [million VA] IDIQ contract with just slightly over $12M in sales. $3M in fee, therefore, will be left on the table…[O]ne of MONTAGUE’s jobs will be to fill up the bucket by directing task orders toward our contract, Going forward, we have two $15M buckets to fill (Central and Eastern regions). That’s a lot of shoveling to get to $30M…BILL has the relationships to help us maximize the contracts…On the VA ‘major construction’ front here is the list of medical centers and their approximate construction cost in the pipeline: West Los Angeles, CA: $750M; San Francisco, CA: $125M, Reno, NV: $115M, Alameda, CA: $225M. Montague told us about these before they were advertised, which has allowed us to get an early start in developing the team. If we bring him on board, he can help us pull in one or two of these large projects,” according to the indictment. On May 26, 2011, Montague traveled to Washington, D.C. on official VA business. On June 17, 2011, he caused to be submitted a government expense report seeking reimbursement for $1,204 for hotels, parking, per diems, and other expenses. On June 12, 2011, Montague caused to be sent a $2,741 invoice to Business 75 for “consulting services” for work performed at “Wash/Cleve/Dayton.” The invoice included $211 for hotel and $30.60 for hotel taxes incurred on May 26, 2011, according to the indictment. The case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Antoinette T. Bacon and Justin J. Roberts following an investigation by the FBI and United States Department of Veterans Affairs-Office of Inspector General.
corruption HATTIESBURG, MS—Scott Walker, 34, of Ocean Springs, pled guilty today in U.S. District Court to one count of federal program fraud and one count of conspiracy to commit federal program fraud, announced U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis and FBI Special Agent in Charge Daniel McMullen. Walker admitted creating and submitting a false invoice in the amount of $180,000 to the City of D’Iberville for payment of consulting services that were never performed in connection with a $3 million grant issued to the City of D’Iberville by the Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality. Additionally, Walker admitted conspiring with his father, William Walker, to divert federal grant monies in a scheme that resulted in the federal grant monies being used to unlawfully purchase Scott Walker’s personal property in Ocean Springs, Mississippi. “Today’s guilty plea concludes a significant case of fraud committed against the City of D’Iberville,” said U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis. “Today’s guilty plea also takes us one step closer to holding accountable those who, through the Mississippi Department of Marine Resources, fraudulently diverted and misused both federal grants and money belonging to the State of Mississippi.” Daniel McMullen, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI in Mississippi, stated: “I’d like to recognize and commend the investigators whose tenacious pursuit of the truth resulted in this guilty plea. Scott Walker has admitted to and is taking responsibility for conspiring with others, including other public officials, to defraud the United States government for personal gain, validating the case the investigators had built against him. Crimes of this nature do not affect just one person or one community. Public corruption is just that—a corruption that affects everyone, if only by undermining their trust.” Walker will be sentenced on May 6, 2014 at 1:30 p.m. by U.S. District Judge Keith Starrett in Hattiesburg. The maximum penalty for theft of government funds is 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. The maximum penalty for conspiracy is five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation with assistance from the Mississippi State Auditor’s Office. Criminal Division Chief John Dowdy, Assistant U.S. Attorney Jerry Rushing and Assistant U.S. Attorney Jay Golden are prosecuting the case.
corruption ELKINS, WV—The Barbour County sheriff admitted to insurance fraud on Thursday in federal court and resigned his position as the chief law enforcement officer in the county. United States Attorney William J. Ihlenfeld, II announced that JOHN W. HAWKINS, 47 years of age, of Philipi, West Virginia, entered a guilty plea to a felony Information charging him with mail fraud. HAWKINS admitted to staging an automobile accident in April of 2013 and then, with the assistance of one his deputies, fabricating a report for submission to Nationwide Insurance Company so that his claim would be approved. HAWKINS asserted that while driving his 2004 GMC Envoy, he accidentally drove off Jerusalem Church Road in Philipi and ran into a tree. However, a review of the claim file revealed inconsistencies in HAWKINS’ story. Photographs taken by the insurance adjuster and information from the vehicle’s data recorder contradicted HAWKINS’ version of events. Witnesses familiar with the scheme advised investigators that the story provided by HAWKINS was false. HAWKINS used the United States mail to make a fraudulent claim in the amount of $8,262.65, which was paid to him by Nationwide last year. HAWKINS also used his official Barbour County e-mail account to communicate with Nationwide regarding his false claim. “The defendant used his position as sheriff to take advantage of the insurance claims process and to receive a substantial financial benefit,” said U.S. Attorney Ihlenfeld. “The false accident report that he ordered his deputy to create helped to substantiate his claim, as did the fact that he was a law enforcement officer himself. By abusing the authority of his position, Sheriff Hawkins violated the trust that the citizens of Barbour County placed in him when he was elected.” As part of his plea agreement, HAWKINS must make full restitution to Nationwide Insurance Company. HAWKINS also is required to resign as the sheriff of Barbour County, to relinquish his West Virginia law enforcement certification, and to agree to never again serve as a law enforcement officer. The United States Attorney’s Office agreed not to pursue other investigations into the conduct of HAWKINS, including his alleged mishandling of an estate in his official capacity as sheriff, allegations of missing funds from the sheriff’s tax office, and potential civil rights violations. The investigation into others who may have been involved in the scheme is ongoing, according to Ihlenfeld. HAWKINS faces up to 20 years and a fine of up to $250,000 when he is sentenced. Under the Federal Sentencing Guidelines the actual sentence imposed will be based upon the seriousness of the offense and his prior criminal history, if any. This case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney John C. Parr and was investigated by the U.S. Attorney’s Office Public Corruption Unit. Agents and officers from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the West Virginia State Police led the inquiry into HAWKINS. Assistance was provided by the West Virginia Insurance Commission, Fraud Investigations Division. Ihlenfeld urges anyone with information regarding public corruption in their community to call the West Virginia Public Corruption Hotline at 855-WVA-FEDS (1-855-982-3337), or to send an e-mail to wvafeds@usdoj.gov.
corruption TRENTON, NJ—A Hudson County, New Jersey man who served as the senior accountant of the City of Bayonne Department of Community Development (CBDCD) today admitted accepting $65,000 in bribe payments in exchange for his assistance in awarding projects funded by U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development grants, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Anselmo Crisonino, 53, of Bayonne, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Peter G. Sheridan in Trenton federal court to a four-count information charging him with one count of accepting bribe payments totaling approximately $65,000 from Joseph Arrigo, the owner of a contracting company in Bayonne. Crisonino also pleaded guilty to one count of theft and conversion of federal funds ($422,360), one count of conducting an illegal gambling business, and one count of submitting a false tax return for tax year 2011. According to documents filed in this case and statements made in court: The CBDCD was an agency that received funds from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) under a federal program that provided grants up to $20,000 to low income families to rehabilitate their homes and to repair conditions affecting health and safety, accessibility, energy efficiency, or code compliance. The CBDCD also provided these HUD funds under the same federal program to non-profit organizations. Crisonino was responsible for reviewing applications and awarding such funds to qualified applicants. In September 2010, Crisonino solicited cash bribe payments from Arrigo in exchange for Crisonino’s assistance in awarding HUD grant funds from the CBDCD to Arrigo as the owner of Shadow Contracting LLC. From September 2010 to February 2013, Crisonino received cash payments from Arrigo totaling approximately $65,000 in exchange for Crisonino’s assistance in awarding HUD grant funds from the CBDCD to Arrigo that totaled approximately $426,000. Between September 2010 and February 2013, Crisonino awarded HUD grant funds to several contractors and plumbers in Bayonne through the CBDCD, despite the fact that Crisonino knew that the submitted bids for the projects were fraudulent and were the result of collusion by the contractors and plumbers. Crisonino also approved change orders on projects where little to no legitimate work had been done by the contractors and plumbers at the job sites. The approved change orders allowed the CBDCD to disperse additional HUD grant funds to the projects that had already reached the maximum $20,000 grant allotment. Crisonino also pleaded guilty to conducting an illegal gambling business in northern New Jersey. The illegal gambling business was administered and managed through a website that Crisonino and others accessed through usernames and passwords. He admitted making and subscribing a U.S. Individual Tax Return, Form 1040, for tax year 2011 filed with the IRS, which he did not believe to be true and correct as to every material matter, including approximately $65,000 in unreported income through the bribe payments. The bribery and theft of government funds charges to which Crisonino pleaded guilty are each punishable by a maximum potential penalty of 10 years in prison. The charge of conducting an illegal gambling business is punishable by a maximum potential penalty of five years in prison. The charge of filing a false tax return is punishable by a maximum potential penalty of three years in prison. All of four charges are also punishable by a $250,000 fine. Sentencing is currently scheduled for June 4, 2014. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford in Newark; special agents of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Office of the Inspector General, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Christina Scaringi; and special agents of IRS-Criminal Investigation, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Shantelle P. Kitchen in Newark, with the continuing investigation leading to today’s guilty plea. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Jacques S. Pierre of the Special Prosecutions Division and Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven G. Sanders of the Appeals Division. Defense counsel: Daniel J. Welsh Esq., Jersey City, New Jersey
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida; Jose A. Gonzalez, Special Agent in Charge, Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI); and Michael B. Steinbach, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office, announce that Douglas L. Bates, 55, of Parkland, pled guilty today in U.S. District Court in West Palm Beach to a superseding information charging conspiracy to commit wire fraud, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371. At sentencing, Bates faces up to five years in prison. The acts set forth in the charging document were all in furtherance of a Ponzi scheme involving the sale of purported confidential settlement agreements in sexual harassment and/or whistleblower cases which were purportedly handled by attorneys at the former Ft. Lauderdale law firm of Rothstein, Rosenfeldt and Adler, P.A. (RRA). According to the factual stipulation filed in support of the guilty plea, while Bates was a partner in the Law Offices of Koppel and Bates located at 817 South University Drive, Suite 100, Plantation, Florida, he assisted Scott W. Rothstein in defrauding certain clients of RRA by drafting false and fraudulent opinion letters claiming to represent an investment group which had a business plan to invest in the confidential settlements which formed the basis for the Ponzi scheme when, in fact, he did not, and claiming that he represented a plaintiff who had entered into one of the confidential settlement agreements when, in fact, he did not. The superseding information further alleges that Bates assisted Rothstein by arranging to have representatives of an investment group falsely informed that numerous legal cases were referred by Koppel & Bates to RRA when, in fact, they were not. Sentencing for Bates is scheduled for May 1, 2014 at 11:00 a.m. in West Palm Beach before U.S. District Judge Donald M. Middlebrooks. U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer stated, “It is unconscionable and unacceptable when attorneys violate the oath of office they swear to uphold. Bates, an attorney, violated the oath of office he swore to uphold by participating in the furtherance of Rothstein’s Ponzi scheme. As I have previously stated, the tentacles of Rothstein’s billion-dollar Ponzi scheme reached far and wide. One by one, Rothstein’s criminal associates are being held accountable for their crimes. Today, Bates’ criminal actions make him the sixth attorney—and the 16th accomplice—to be held accountable.” José A. Gonzalez stated, “Today’s guilty plea should send a message to those who violate their ethical obligations by participating in a massive fraud: No matter who you are or the fraudulent means employed, you will be held accountable for your actions. This investigation is not over. Together with our law enforcement partners we will continue to aggressively pursue those who assisted Rothstein in perpetrating this complex financial fraud.” “Scott Rothstein needed accomplices who were willing to gamble away their ethical obligations in exchange for the promise of financial gain,” said Michael B. Steinbach, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Miami. “Douglas Bates took that gamble and lost. Regardless of one’s role, the FBI and its partners are committed to investigate those who swindle investors.” Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of IRS-CI and FBI. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Lawrence D. LaVecchio, Paul F. Schwartz, Jeffrey N. Kaplan, and Evelyn B. Sheehan.
corruption ELKINS, WV—A supervisor with the state Division of Highways (DOH) has been charged with making a false statement to a federal agent. United States Attorney William J. Ihlenfeld, II, announced that Barry D. Thompson, 48 years old, of Mount Clare, West Virginia, was indicted by a federal grand jury yesterday on one count of false statement to a federal agent. Thompson is charged with making materially false statements last month to an FBI agent who questioned him as part of an ongoing federal investigation into the Equipment Division of the West Virginia Division of Highways. Thompson works as a supervisor at the Buckhannon office of the DOH. An indictment is merely an accusation, and Thompson is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty. Thompson faces up to five years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000 if he is convicted. Under the Federal Sentencing Guidelines the actual sentence imposed will be based upon the seriousness of the offense and his prior criminal history, if any. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney John C. Parr and was investigated by the U.S. Attorney’s Office Public Corruption Unit. Agents and officers from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the West Virginia State Police, and the State Commission on Special Investigations are leading the inquiry.
corruption CHICAGO—Former Cook County Commissioner JOSEPH MARIO MORENO was sentenced today to 11 years in federal prison for engaging in a series of public and personal corruption schemes over a span of three years. Moreno pleaded guilty on July 1, 2013, to conspiracy to commit extortion after he was initially charged in late June 2012, about 18 months after he left public office. Moreno, 61, of Chicago, a lawyer who served more than 16 years as an elected county commissioner until December 2010, was sentenced to 132 months in prison, and he was ordered to forfeit $100,000 and pay a total of more than $138,000 in restitution by U.S. District Judge Gary Feinerman. Moreno was ordered to begin serving his sentence on April 21. “Mr. Moreno was not a reluctant participant in these schemes; he was an eager participant,” Judge Feinerman said, adding that Moreno “embraced them with gusto and pursued them with vigor.” Moreno “repeatedly pursued his own interests at the expense of those he was supposed to serve. . . . [H]e extorted a reputable business and corrupted the highest levels of Cook County government, the Town of Cicero, and a private hospital. He also evaded taxes and suborned perjury so he could reduce his child support obligations. And when he was confronted about his crimes, he obstructed justice by providing the government with false invoices in an effort to conceal his criminal conduct,” Assistant U.S. Attorneys Christopher J. Stetler and Megan C. Church wrote in a government sentencing memo. Notably, they argued, Moreno conceived a motto of governing that captured his corrupt approach to public office: “I don’t want to be a hog. I just want to be a pig. Hogs get slaughtered. Pigs get fat.” Moreno pleaded guilty to conspiracy to extort an unnamed company that was awarded a contract to help improve Cook County Hospital’s revenue cycle into using his friend and co-defendant, Ron Garcia, and his business, Chicago Medical Equipment & Supply, Inc., as a minority subcontractor in return for a $100,000 bribe. Garcia forgave a $100,000 mortgage loan to Moreno in exchange for Moreno’s efforts to steer the lucrative sub-contract to Garcia’s company, and Moreno tried to disguise the bribe by claiming that he had repaid the purported loan. In pleading guilty, Moreno also agreed that he sought to obtain orders of Dermafill bandages from Cook County in return for kickbacks while he and his staffer, co-defendant and former Chicago Alderman Ambrosio Medrano, were Cook County officials; sought to obtain approval for a waste-transfer station in return for kickbacks while a Town of Cicero official; and evaded his federal income taxes between 2007 and 2010 by misreporting the income from his law office. According to sentencing documents, between 2008 and 2010, Moreno engaged in those schemes, as well as five other schemes to: enrich himself through kickbacks in return for passing a “green” resolution while a Cook County Commissioner; obtain medical transcription business from Cook County in return for kickbacks concealed as legal fees; obtain orders of Dermafill bandages from a private hospital by bribing a hospital official; enrich himself through kickbacks while a Town of Cicero official; reduce his child-support obligations by suborning perjury during a court hearing.  Medrano, 60, of Chicago, the former alderman who later worked on Moreno’s countystaff, was sentenced last month to a total of 13 years in federal prison after pleading guilty in one case involving Moreno and being convicted at trial last year in a separate corruption case that stemmed from the same FBI undercover investigation. Garcia, 54, of Homer Glen, and two other co-defendants, Gerald W. Lombardi, 61, of Darien, and his son, Jerry A. Lombardi, 34, of Downers Grove, who were agents of Chasing Lions, LLC, a disabled-veterans-owned business in Lisle that sold the Dermafill bandages, pleaded guilty to their roles in the scheme and are awaiting sentencing. A sixth co-defendant, Stanley Wozniak, 51, of Chicago, is awaiting the disposition of charges. The Moreno sentence was announced by Zachary T. Fardon, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois; Robert J. Holley, Special Agent in Charge of the Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and James C. Lee, Special Agent in Charge of the Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation Division.
corruption SAN FRANCISCO—Stephen Tanabe, a former deputy with the Contra Costa County Sheriff’s Office, was sentenced to 15 months’ imprisonment in federal prison today, announced United States Attorney Melinda Haag and FBI Special Agent in Charge David J. Johnson. A federal jury convicted Tanabe on September 3, 2013, on two counts of extortion under color of official right, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1951; three counts of wire fraud on a deprivation of honest services theory, in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1343 and 1346; and one count of conspiracy to commit honest services fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1349. Tanabe was acquitted on one extortion count. According to evidence presented at trial, Tanabe conspired to and did engage in a scheme to take bribes in exchange for his services as a deputy sheriff, thereby depriving the people of Contra Costa County of their right to his honest services. Specifically, the evidence showed that Christopher Butler, a former Antioch Police officer-turned-private investigator, was hired by wives and ex-wives engaged in divorce and child custody proceedings to arrange “stings” against their spouses, whom they told Butler had a propensity to drive under the influence of alcohol. Butler used “decoys” to entice the sting targets to bars in downtown Danville, where Tanabe was assigned to patrol. The decoys would encourage the men to drink and then drive while intoxicated. For one sting, Tanabe joined Butler in a bar while off-duty, watching two attractive young women working for Butler drink with a sting target. Evidence showed that, in exchange for a promise of cocaine, Tanabe notified an on-duty deputy that the sting target was about to drive away, having been lured by the prospect of a hot tub with the two women. For two other stings, the evidence showed that Tanabe, then on-duty, waited outside the Vine Bar in Danville and then arrested the targets. He received a Glock handgun in exchange for his participation in these sting operations. The sentence imposed by the Honorable Charles R. Breyer, Senior United States District Court Judge, also included 240 hours of community service, a three-year period of supervised release, and forfeiture of the Glock handgun he obtained in connection with two of the arrests. The court ordered Tanabe to surrender to the United States Marshals Service to serve his term of imprisonment on April 15, 2014. “This sentence reflects the serious nature of Stephen Tanabe’s criminal conduct—taking bribes in exchange for setting up unsuspecting citizens and abusing the public’s trust in law enforcement,” said United States Attorney, Melinda Haag. “This sentencing is symbolic of the unwavering commitment of the FBI through our partnership with the U.S. Attorney’s Office in preserving the public’s trust in those who serve in a law enforcement capacity,” said Johnson. “No one is above the law, and all are accountable for their actions.” Tanabe, 50, was originally indicted on December 15, 2011. The superseding information on which he was tried was filed on June 12, 2013. Hartley M. K. West and Philip J. Kearney are the Assistant U.S. Attorneys who prosecuted the case with the assistance of Alycee Lane. The prosecution is the result of a lengthy investigation by the FBI with the invaluable assistance of the Contra Costa County District Attorney’s Office.
corruption The Federal Bureau of Investigation’s (FBI) Washington Field Office is seeking the public’s assistance in identifying public corruption in Northern Virginia. As the FBI’s number one criminal investigative priority, public corruption occurs when a public official, at any level of government—local, state, or federal—does any official act in exchange for money or other free goods or services for private gain. Public corruption could also include public employees who take something of value for their own personal gain, thereby violating the public’s trust. Public corruption hits at the heart of what a government is supposed to do—serve its people. Listen: Public Service Announcement media Download | Transcript    Public corruption is often the result of agreements made in whispered conversations and sealed with quick handshakes. The secretive nature of the crime makes it difficult to detect without the assistance of concerned citizens. Many of the FBI’s investigations into public corruption begin with a tip from someone who encounters corruption. Therefore, the public’s willingness to come forward and report abuse of public office is essential to the FBI’s investigations. The FBI’s Washington Field Office has a dedicated squad of agents that investigate allegations of public corruption in Northern Virginia. To help identify potential criminal activity, the Washington Field Office has set up a Northern Virginia Public Corruption Hotline at 703-686-6225 and e-mail at NOVAPC@ic.fbi.gov. While the vast majority of public officials are honest in their work and committed to serving their fellow citizens, unfortunately, a small percentage of public officials abuse their offices and the positions that they were sworn to uphold. Examples of corruption, where bribery and/or kickbacks occur in exchange for official action, could include public corruption committed by: Government officials such as DMV employees; city inspectors; taxing or zoning assessors or other regulatory agency employees; or even town councils or mayors; Contracting officials at all levels, including those who manage government contracts or regulatory permits; or school resource officers who manage school accounts; Local officials colluding with real estate investors to rig the bidding process at foreclosure auctions; A person representing the judicial branch—a judge, member of the jury or court personnel; A person representing law enforcement who steals drugs from criminals, embezzles government funds, falsifies records, or smuggles contraband. Related podcast Two recent examples of public corruption investigated by the FBI’s Washington Field Office, which includes jurisdiction over Northern Virginia, are a DMV employee and two others who pled guilty to accepting bribes in exchange for DMV documents for illegal aliens who were otherwise not eligible; and a chief of a volunteer fire department who pled guilty to theft from a program that received federal funds. Such examples of public corruption erode the public’s confidence and undermine the strength of our government.
corruption LAFAYETTE, LA—United States Attorney Stephanie A. Finley announced today that Walter O. Guillory, 51, of Lafayette, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Elizabeth Foote to receiving bribes while running two housing authorities in the Acadiana area and also for his part in a conspiracy to award bids to a preferred contractor in Opelousas. According to evidence presented at the guilty plea, Guillory served as the executive director of the Lafayette Housing Authority (LHA) from June 1998 to October 2010, and he served as executive director of the Opelousas Housing Authority (OHA) from November 2005 to November 2010. During this time period, Guillory sponsored a local baseball team. He solicited donations from various vendors and contractors of both the LHA and the OHA for “his baseball team.” From 2006 to 2010, the vendors were expected to make yearly donations in exchange for doing business with the housing authorities. Some of the contributions were spent on personal expenses and not for the baseball team. He solicited and received more than $100,000 in bribes from the vendors between 2006 and 2010. Guillory is also accused of conspiring with others to circumvent bid laws in order to award construction contracts to one company who performed construction work for OHA. They used the fake bids to make it appear that several companies were placing bids on construction projects, but in fact, there was only one company being considered. In addition, they used interstate wire communication facilities including e-mail transmissions for a variety of purposes, including sending and receiving e-mails related to contracts and false bids. Guillory approved these contracts with full knowledge that the bid rules, laws, and regulations were not being followed from 2007 to 2009. Guillory faces up to 10 years in prison for one count of receipt of a bribe by an agent of an organization receiving federal funds, and he faces 20 years in prison for one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud. The charges also carry three years of supervised release, a $250,000 fine, forfeiture, and restitution. Sentencing is set for June 11, 2014. The Federal Bureau of Investigation and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development conducted the investigation. Assistant U.S. Attorney Kelly P. Uebinger is prosecuting the case.
corruption The former chief information officer of the Wayne County government was sentenced to 57 months in prison today for taking $70,000 in bribes from a businessman who had millions of dollars in contracts with Wayne County, U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade announced today. McQuade was joined in the announcement by FBI Special Agent in Charge Paul M. Abbate. During a hearing today before U.S. District Judge Stephen J. Murphy, III, Tahir Kazmi, 49, of Rochester Hills, Michigan, was sentenced to 57 months in prison, a $15,000 fine, and a term of supervised release based on his plea of guilty to accepting bribes. Kazmi, a political appointee in the Wayne County government, had accepted cash; trips to Hawaii, Turkey, and Florida; and other things of value totaling $70,000 between 2009 and 2011 from a county IT contractor who was overseen by Kazmi. After Kazmi learned that the FBI was investigating Wayne County corruption, Kazmi engaged in a conspiracy with Wayne County appointee Zayd Allebban in an effort to obstruct justice and to cover up the bribes received by Kazmi. Thus far in the investigation of corruption in the Wayne County government, five men have been convicted of either corruption or obstructing the investigation. Defendant Zayd Allebban was sentenced to 41 months in prison on September 6, 2013. Defendant David Edwards, Kazmi’s Deputy Chief Information Officer was sentenced to 12 months in prison on September 27, 2013. The other two convicted defendants, Michael Grundy and Keith Griffin have yet to be sentenced. United States Attorney McQuade said, “The court’s sentence today sends a strong message that public officials who use their positions of trust to personally profit will be punished. Public officials should serve the interests of the people, not their own interests.” “Government officials who breach the public trust for their own selfish purposes, and in this instance conspire with others in an attempt to cover up their criminal activity, will continue to be pursued aggressively and brought to justice,” said Paul M. Abbate, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI Detroit Field Office. “Today’s sentence sends another message that public servants are entrusted to serve the public, not themselves.” The case was investigated by agents of the FBI. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys David A. Gardey and Gjon Juncaj.
corruption NEW ORLEANS—C. Ray Nagin, 57, a resident of Frisco, Texas, and formerly the mayor of New Orleans, was convicted in federal court today on 20 of 21 charges, announced U.S. Attorney Kenneth Allen Polite, Jr., FBI Special Agent in Charge Michael Anderson, and IRS-Criminal Investigation Special Agent in Charge Gabriel Grchan. Nagin was found not guilty on count seven, a bribery charge. According to evidence adduced at trial, between December 2004 and the present, Nagin and several others participated in a conspiracy to commit bribery and honest services wire fraud. Evidence produced at trial showed that Nagin, in his role as chief executive, devised a scheme to defraud the city of New Orleans and its citizens of his honest services through bribery and a kickback scheme, whereby Nagin used his public office and official capacity to provide favorable treatment, including awarding contracts, that benefitted business and financial interest of individuals providing him with bribes and kickbacks in the form of checks, cash, granite inventory, wire transfers, personal services, and free travel. According to court documents, in January 2005, Nagin created Stone Age LLC, a granite company based in New Orleans. Evidence produced at trial showed, among other things, that Nagin accepted approximately $62,250 in bribes from Rodney Williams and his company, Three Fold Consultants LLC. Evidence also showed that Nagin accepted bribes from Frank Fradella, including $50,000, granite inventory, and nine payoffs in the form of wire transfers from Fradella totaling $112,500. In some cases, money was deposited into Nagin’s Stone Age corporate account, or free granite inventory was provided to Stone Age. In addition, trial evidence proved that Nagin participated in a money laundering conspiracy and filed false tax returns for the years 2005 to 2008. “Our public servants pledge to provide honest services to the people of Southeast Louisiana. We are committed to bringing any politician who violates that obligation to justice,” stated United States Attorney Kenneth Allen Polite, Jr. “The tireless efforts of the investigative and prosecution team, exceeding five years, yielded the just and fair result in holding former Mayor Nagin fully accountable for serving his own personal interests well above those of the city at a time when it needed leadership, integrity and honest dealings the most,” stated Michael Anderson, Special Agent in Charged for the FBI New Orleans Field Office. “The investigation and subsequent prosecution of former Mayor C. Ray Nagin and his co-conspirators represents the closing of a dark chapter in the history of this great city. While most people were working to rebuild after Hurricane Katrina, these individuals were conspiring to benefit themselves at the expense of the citizens that elected them,” stated Gabriel L. Grchan, Special Agent in Charge of IRS-Criminal Investigation. “Special agents of IRS-Criminal Investigation are elite financial investigators and will continue to lend our expertise to this and other task forces to ensure that those elected to public service do just that—serve the public, not contrive backroom deals to get themselves and their families private jet trips around the world or secure their family owned businesses coveted contracts. It also sends a reminder to everyone that all income, legal and illegal, must be reported to the Internal Revenue Service. Know that we, with our federal law enforcement partners, will continue to ensure that all Americans, including public officials, are held to the same standard. No one is above the law.” “The New Orleans Office of Inspector General congratulates our federal partners in the successful prosecution of the former mayor. OIG involvement in the case dates to 2009 when an evaluation led to a joint investigation of Greg Meffert. The OIG will continue to protect the city from those who would defraud it,” stated Ed Quatrevaux, Inspector General, City of New Orleans. “The road to former Mayor Ray Nagin’s conviction began with one phone call from a courageous citizen,” stated Rafael C. Goyeneche, III, president of the Metropolitan Crime Commission. “That citizen told the MCC about shipments of granite from Florida by the truckload to the Nagin family business in New Orleans. It was only one piece of a corrupt puzzle but when placed in the hands of the FBI and the U.S. Attorney’s Office, the pieces grew one by one into a sprawling picture of corruption and betrayal.” Nagin faces the following terms of imprisonment: Count one (conspiracy to commit bribery and honest services wire fraud): statutory penalties of up to five years in prison, a $250,000 fine, and three years of supervised release Counts two through six (accepting a bribe): statutory penalties of up to 10 years in prison, a $250,000 fine, and three years of supervised release on each count Counts eight through 16 (accepting payoffs that caused interstate wire communications to occur between Louisiana and other states): statutory penalties of up to 20 years in prison, a $250,000 fine, and three years of supervised release on each count Count 17 (conspiracy to commit money laundering): statutory penalties of up to 10 years in prison, a $250,000 fine, and three years of supervised release Counts 18-21 (filing false tax returns for years 2005 through 2008): statutory penalties of up to three years in prison, a $100,000 fine, and three years of supervised release on each count The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation Division, and the New Orleans Office of Inspector General. U.S. Attorney Polite would also like to acknowledge the assistance provided by the New Orleans Inspector General’s Office and the Metropolitan Crime Commission. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Matthew M. Coman, Richard R. Pickens, II, and Matthew S. Chester.
corruption Rafael Dobard, age 39, and Quiny Jones, age 33, both New Orleans Police Department (NOPD) narcotics detectives, pled guilty today before U.S. District Court Judge Nannette Jolivette Brown to conspiracy to commit theft from programs receiving federal funds and conspiracy to commit wire fraud, announced U. S. Attorney Kenneth Allen Polite, Jr. Judge Brown set sentencing of both defendants on June 19, 2014, at 10:00 am. According to court documents, Dobard and Jones both admitted that they conspired to enrich themselves and others by obtaining NOPD confidential informant funds by fraud and by corruptly making payments to other officers in their unit. They also admitted that they conspired to commit wire fraud by submitting NOPD timesheets that indicated they were working on duty for the NOPD when, in fact, they were working at non-NOPD detail jobs. Dobard and Jones have served as NOPD officers for eight and 11 years, respectively. Both officers were most recently assigned as detectives to NOPD’s Fourth District Narcotics Unit and are currently suspended. The maximum penalty for conspiracy to commit theft from programs receiving federal funds is five years’ imprisonment and a $250,000 fine. The maximum penalty for conspiracy to commit wire fraud is 20 years’ imprisonment and a $250,000 fine. Any term of imprisonment must be followed by a term of supervised release of up to three years. The case was investigated jointly by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the NOPD Public Integrity Bureau. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Mark A. Miller and Special Assistant United States Attorney Michael B. Redmann, who is detailed to the U.S. Attorney’s Office from the Orleans Parish District Attorney’s Office.
corruption COLUMBUS—Former Columbus Police Officer Steven Edward Dean, 49, of Columbus, pleaded guilty in U.S. District Court to misappropriating and selling heavy equipment and other property the Columbus Division of Police received through a Department of Defense surplus program. Carter M. Stewart, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Ohio; Kevin Cornelius, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI); Brian Reihms, Special Agent in Charge, Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS); and Columbus Police Chief Kim Jacobs announced the pleas entered today before U.S. District Judge Michael H. Watson. According to court documents, an investigation by the Columbus Division of Police, the FBI and DCIS concluded that between October 1, 2005 and June 1, 2012, Dean diverted property with a fair market value of $251,570.94 the police department had received from the Defense Reutilization Marketing Office (DRMO) program. The embezzled items included $133,554.59 of heavy equipment, construction equipment, and vehicles; restaurant equipment; $94,163.25 of materials sold for scrap; and $16,353.15 worth of items, including diesel generators, sold to private persons. This conclusion was based on records obtained from the U.S. Department of Defense DRMO program, the state of Ohio offices involved with the DRMO program, scrapyard receipts, Craigslist online point-of-sale website records, restaurant supply records of sold equipment, and by viewing the items of property themselves. Dean pleaded guilty to one count of embezzlement from a program receiving federal funds and one count of theft of public property. Each crime carries a maximum sentence of 10 years’ imprisonment, but the plea agreement specifies that the sentences should be groups and not imposed consecutively. Under terms of the plea agreement, Dean will forfeit $251,570.94 less the value of the recovered equipment. Judge Watson will schedule a sentencing hearing following a pre-sentence investigation by the court. U.S. Attorney Stewart commended the investigation by DCIS, the FBI, and CPD, as well as Assistant U.S. Attorneys Doug Squires and Deborah Solove, who are representing the United States in this case. Follow the FBI’s Cincinnati Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s Cincinnati Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption PETER Galvan, 54, a resident of St. Tammany Parish, and the former St. Tammany Parish Coroner, was sentenced today to serve 24 months in federal custody followed by one year of supervised release, fined $5,000, and ordered to pay restitution of at least $193,388. Galvan pled guilty to conspiring to steal government funds from the St. Tammany Parish Coroner’s Office on October 23, 2013, announced U.S. Attorney Kenneth Allen Polite, Jr. According to the factual basis, the bill of information to which Galvan pled guilty, and other court documents filed in federal court: Galvan earned annual or sick leave to which he was not entitled. However, with the assistance of another coroner’s office employee, Galvan received yearly payments for unused annual and sick leave, totaling $111,376 over a five-year period. Galvan, as a physician, individually contracted with the city of Slidell, Louisiana, to provide medical services for inmates of the Slidell City Jail. The contract was not with the St. Tammany Parish Coroner’s Office but with Galvan personally. However, Galvan conspired with another individual employed with the St. Tammany Parish Coroner’s Office to service this contract while the other individual was supposed to be working for and was being paid by the St. Tammany Parish Coroner’s Office. The Coroner’s Office employee was paid at least $50,000 in public funds to fulfill Galvan’s personal contract. Additionally, Galvan conspired with an employee of the coroner’s office to purchase a $9,170 generator for Galvan’s personal vessel, a life raft and life jackets for his personal vessel valued at $4,841, and a Global Positioning Satellite Receiver for his personal use valued at $2,395, all with St. Tammany Parish Coroner’s Office funds. Finally, Galvan used his St. Tammany Parish Coroner’s Office credit card to make purchases of meals and other personal items with his public credit card totaling $15,606 that were unrelated to the office’s business. The investigation of the St. Tammany Coroner’s Office is continuing. “Members of this community, and indeed residents of this entire state, are tired of corruption and the negative effect it has on our reputation, economic development, and quality of life,” stated United States Attorney Polite. “Our residents expect that elected officials will provide honest services to the public, not use their offices or titles to enrich themselves. We expect, and will no longer tolerate, anything less.” Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, New Orleans Field Office, Michael Anderson, stated, “This conviction clearly highlights the significant importance of the continuous engagement of the local citizenry to support law enforcement’s priority mission to address fraud, corruption and betrayals of public trust.” “Today’s sentencing of Dr. Peter Galvan again emphasizes the Internal Revenue Service, the U.S. Attorney’s Office and federal law enforcement partners will continue their aggressive pursuit of those who defraud the public and divert public money for personal use,” said Gabriel L. Grchan, IRS-Criminal Investigation Special Agent in Charge, New Orleans Field Office. “Honest taxpayers have been reassured today that no one is above the law.” Mr. Polite praised the investigative work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation Division, and the state of Louisiana Legislative Auditor. The case is being handled by the Office’s Fraud Unit, Assistant United States Attorneys Carter K. D. Guice, Jr., and Chandra Menon.
corruption KANSAS CITY, MO—Tammy Dickinson, United States Attorney for the Western District of Missouri, announced that the former mayor of Grandview, Missouri pleaded guilty in federal court today to a wire fraud scheme in which he used a bogus charity to steal $35,000 in contributions from International House of Prayer, a local non-profit organization. Stephen S. Dennis, 50, of Grandview, waived his right to a grand jury and pleaded guilty before U.S. Senior District Judge Howard F. Sachs to a federal information that charges him with the felony offense of wire fraud. Dennis resigned as mayor of Grandview on January 10, 2014. By pleading guilty today, Dennis admitted that he engaged in a scheme from December 12, 2011 to November 29, 2013, to solicit donations to a corporation called Matters of the Heart. Dennis incorporated Matters of the Heart as a non-profit corporation under state law but falsely claimed it was also a federally tax-exempt 501(c)(3) corporation. Dennis never applied for 501(c)(3) status with the IRS for Matters of the Heart, even though application instructions were given to him in December 2011 by an attorney from whom he sought legal advice. According to today’s plea agreement, Dennis received two checks from International House of Prayer Forerunner Christian Fellowship, a non-profit organization in Grandview, totaling $35,000 in 2012. After obtaining the $35,000, Dennis used these funds for his own personal benefit, including his immediate family’s living expenses, rather than for any charitable purpose. Matters of the Heart is now dissolved. In the organization’s articles of incorporation, Dennis listed himself as incorporator, registered agent, and one of the three directors of the board. He listed two persons, identified as “B.S.” and “J.M.” as the other two directors. B.S. and J.M. had no knowledge that they were listed as directors and at no time gave Dennis permission or authority to claim them as such. B.S. and J.M. have never served as directors on the Matters of the Heart board of directors. Under the terms of today’s plea agreement, the government will jointly recommend with the defendant a sentence of one year and one day in prison. The court may also order Dennis to pay restitution to International House of Prayer. A sentencing hearing will be scheduled after the completion of a presentence investigation by the United States Probation Office. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Roseann A. Ketchmark. It was investigated by the FBI. Public Corruption Hotline The FBI has established a toll-free public corruption hotline, 1-855-KCPCTIP, and e-mail KCPCTIP@ic.fbi.gov. Details regarding the various types of public corruption investigated by the FBI can be found online: http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/investigate/corruption. This news release, as well as additional information about the office of the United States Attorney for the Western District of Missouri, is available online at http://www.justice.gov/usao/mow/index.html.
corruption PITTSBURGH—A former city of Pittsburgh employee has been sentenced in federal court to three years’ supervised release which consists of six months home detention and a $6,000 fine on her conviction of conspiracy, United States Attorney David J. Hickton announced today. United States District Judge Cathy Bissoon imposed the sentence on Christine Kebr, 57, of 983 Redwood Drive, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. According to information presented to the court, Kebr was an employee of the city of Pittsburgh with responsibility for installing radios and mobile data terminals (MDTs) in city police cars. She conspired with others to create a company, Alpha Outfitters, in order to steer a city contract to Alpha Outfitters for the installation of MDTs in police cars. Alpha received the contract in part by fraudulently representing that the company was a Women’s Business Enterprise (WBE). Assistant United States Attorneys Robert S. Cessar and Lee J. Karl prosecuted this case on behalf of the government. U.S. Attorney Hickton commended the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigations for the investigation leading to the successful prosecution of Kebr.
corruption HATTIESBURG, MS—Michael Janus, 47, of Biloxi, pled guilty today in U.S. District Court to one count of federal program fraud in connection with a $3 million grant from the Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality to the city of D’Iberville, announced U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis and FBI Special Agent in Charge Daniel McMullen. Janus admitted that, while serving as city manager for the city of D’Iberville, he fraudulently obtained a $180,000 “finder’s fee” in connection with the MDEQ grant. Janus will be sentenced on May 6, 2014, at 9:30 a.m. and faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation with assistance from the Mississippi State Auditor’s Office. Criminal Division Chief John Dowdy, Assistant U.S. Attorney Jerry Rushing, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Jay Golden are prosecuting the case.
corruption TRENTON—A federal jury today found Trenton Mayor Tony F. Mack guilty on all six federal extortion, bribery, and mail and wire fraud charges against him, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Mack’s brother, Ralphiel Mack, was also convicted on three of the charges but found not guilty on three mail and wire fraud counts, following a five-week trial before U.S. District Judge Michael A. Shipp in Trenton federal court. The Macks were charged in connection with a scheme to accept $119,000 in bribes in exchange for Mayor Mack’s official actions and influence in assisting cooperating witnesses in the development of an automated parking garage on city-owned land. “The jury’s verdict solidly affirms what we first charged more than a year ago—that Tony Mack, with the helping hands of his brother and their cohorts, sold the mayor’s office and sold out the people of Trenton,” U.S. Attorney Fishman said. “We are very grateful to the members of the jury for their service.” Tony F. Mack, 48, and Ralphiel Mack, 41, both of Trenton, originally were charged by complaint on September 10, 2012, with one count of conspiracy to obstruct commerce by extortion under color of official right related to the $119,000 extortion scheme. Also charged at that time was Joseph A. Giorgianni, 64, of Ewing, New Jersey. An indictment returned in December 2012 added charges against all three defendants. Giorgianni pleaded guilty on December 13, 2013, to one count of conspiring with the Macks and others to obstruct interstate commerce by extorting individuals under color of official right, in addition to a separate extortion scheme, a narcotics charge, and illegal weapons possession, all charges unrelated to the Macks. Mayor Mack was convicted of the six counts charged in the indictment: Conspiracy to obstruct and affect interstate commerce by extorition under color of official right Attempted obstruction of commerce by extortion under the color of official right Accepting and agreeing to accept bribes Two counts of wire fraud Mail fraud Ralphiel Mack was convicted on the same first three counts and found not guilty of the mail and wire fraud charges. The jury members deliberated for seven hours before returning their verdicts. According to documents filed in this case and the evidence presented at trial: Mayor Mack, Giorgianni, and Ralphiel Mack conspired to accept approximately $119,000 in cash and other valuables, of which $54,000 was accepted and another $65,000 that the defendants planned to accept, from two cooperating witnesses (CW-1 and CW-2). In exchange for the payments, Mayor Mack agreed to and did assist CW-1 and CW-2 in their efforts to acquire a city-owned lot (the East State Street lot) to develop an automated parking garage (the parking garage project). The scheme included a plan to divert $100,000 of the purchase amount that CW-2 had indicated a willingness to pay to the city of Trenton for the lot as a bribe and kickback payment to Giorgianni and Mayor Mack. The mayor authorized and directed a Trenton official responsible for disposition of city-owned land to offer the East State Street lot to CW-2 for $100,000, significantly less than the amount originally proposed by CW-2. The defendants went to great lengths to conceal their corrupt activity and keep Mayor Mack “safe” from law enforcement. For example, Giorgianni and Ralphiel Mack acted as intermediaries, or “buffers,” who accepted cash payments for Mayor Mack’s benefit. Mayor Mack also used another city of Trenton employee involved in the scheme, Charles Hall, III, 49, of Trenton, to contact other Trenton officials to facilitate the parking garage project and to inform the mayor when Giorgianni had received corrupt cash payments. Hall pleaded guilty before Judge Shipp in February 2013 to an information charging him with one count of conspiracy to obstruct commerce by extortion under color of official right and one count of conspiring to distribute narcotics with others, including Giorgianni. To conceal the corrupt arrangement, the defendants avoided discussing matters related to the scheme over the telephone. When those matters were discussed, they used code words and aliases. One such code word was “Uncle Remus,” which both Giorgianni and Hall regularly used to communicate to Mayor Mack that a corrupt payment had been received. For example, on October 29, 2011, Giorgianni telephoned Hall and informed him that Giorgianni had to “see” Mayor Mack and that “I got Uncle Remus for him,” meaning a corrupt cash payment that Giorgianni had received from CW-1 two days earlier. Giorgianni directed Hall to bring Mayor Mack to a meeting location controlled by Giorgianni (Giorgianni’s Clubhouse), stating “we gotta talk” because “I got something that might be good for him” and that “they’ve already come with Uncle Remus,” meaning a corrupt cash payment. On June 13, 2012, Giorgianni telephoned Mayor Mack and informed him that “Uncle Remus,” meaning a corrupt cash payment, “was there.” Mayor Mack replied, “I’ll call you, J. Okay?” In text messages to Mayor Mack related to the scheme, Giorgianni would refer to himself as “Mr. Baker.” The defendants also concealed their activities by holding meetings concerning the corrupt activity away from Trenton City Hall, including at Giorgianni’s residence, an eatery maintained by Giorgianni known as JoJo’s Steakhouse, Giorgianni’s Clubhouse, and Atlantic City restaurants. At one Atlantic City meeting among Mayor Mack, Giorgianni, Hall, and CW-2, Mayor Mack instructed Giorgianni to ensure that no photographs were taken in order to conceal the corrupt arrangement. The extortion conspiracy and attempted extortion charges are each punishable by a maximum potential penalty of 20 years in prison. The bribery charge is punishable by a maximum potential penalty of 10 years in prison. The mail and wire fraud charges are each punishable by a maximum potential penalty of 20 years in prison. All the counts also carry a potential fine of $250,000 or twice the gain or loss from the offense. Sentencing is scheduled for May 14, 2014 U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI’s Trenton Resident Agency, Newark Field Office, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford, for the investigation leading to the charge. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Eric W. Moran and Matthew J. Skahill of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division in Trenton and Camden, respectively. The charges and allegations contained in the indictment are merely accusations, and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption Former Jarrell (TX) Police Chief Andres Tomas Gutierrez, age 51, faces up to 20 years in federal prison after pleading guilty this morning to a wire fraud/theft of honest services charge, announced United States Attorney Robert Pitman; Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) Special Agent In Charge Janice Ayala in San Antonio; Department of Homeland Security Office of Inspector General–Investigations Special Agent in Charge J. Kirk Beauchamp in Houston; and Federal Bureau of Investigation Acting Special Agent in Charge John Boles of the San Antonio Division. Appearing before United States Magistrate Judge Mark Lane in Austin this morning, Gutierrez admitted that from the fall of 2011 to November 2013, he devised a scheme to defraud and deprive the citizens of Jarrell of their right to his honest services through bribery and concealment of information. “Gutierrez solicited and accepted cash bribes—between $10,000 and $40,000—from several undocumented aliens in return for requesting and obtaining for the aliens limited immigration benefits that the U.S. government intended and designed for law enforcement purposes,” stated U.S. Attorney Robert Pitman. “Gutierrez falsely represented to the U.S. government that the undocumented aliens were assisting the Jarrell Police Department with ongoing investigations into narcotics trafficking and human trafficking,” Pitman added. According to court records, individuals unconnected to the city of Jarrell and its police department introduced Gutierrez to undocumented aliens who had money to pay for immigration benefits. Gutierrez and/or the individuals who made the introductions then met with the aliens and explained the benefits they could receive if they paid certain amounts of money. They lied to the aliens, telling them that the Jarrell Police Department would receive the money and use it to pay for law enforcement operations. They also told the aliens that they would provide information or assistance to the Jarrell Police Department, for use in criminal investigations, in return for the immigration benefits. That was also a lie. Gutierrez never asked the aliens to provide assistance or information in connection with criminal investigations. What Gutierrez asked for and received from the aliens was money. Furthermore, with the help of the individuals who introduced him to the aliens, Gutierrez simply sold the aliens the benefits. After an alien paid his or her money, Gutierrez would submit to the U.S. government an application for the alien to receive what is known as a Significant Public Benefit Parole, which is a type of immigration status that federal immigration laws make available to aliens who actually assist federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies. The paroles authorize an alien to reside and work in the United States for up to a year, and they can be renewed. The applications that Gutierrez submitted said the aliens were providing assistance with ongoing criminal investigations by the Jarrell Police Department, which was false. Also, the defendant never disclosed to the United States government that he was selling the paroles. “Today’s guilty plea serves as a stern and sobering reminder that no one is above the law, especially those who hold a position of public trust,” said Special Agent in Charge Janice Ayala, HSI San Antonio. “HSI will continue to work with its law enforcement partners to root out public corruption wherever it exists.” “Acts of corruption within law enforcement threaten our nation’s system of justice and undermine the honest and hardworking law enforcement personnel who consistently strive to keep that system the best in the world. The Department of Homeland Security will not tolerate corruption, and we will aggressively pursue those who choose to break the law,” stated DHS OIG SAC J. Kirk Beauchamp, “Gutierrez abused his authority and repeatedly broke the law he was sworn to uphold. He tarnished the badge he wore and violated the trust of the people of Jarrell. This case demonstrates the FBI’s commitment to enforce the law and hold individuals accountable, regardless of rank, position, or status,” stated FBI Acting Special Agent In Charge John Boles. Gutierrez is out on bond pending sentencing. No sentencing date has been scheduled. This investigation was conducted by agents with Homeland Security Investigations, Department of Homeland Security Office of Inspector General-Investigations, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorneys Alan M. Buie and Gregg N. Sofer are prosecuting this case on behalf of the Government. The government’s investigation into the bribery scheme is ongoing. Anyone who has pertinent information should call one of the following: the FBI at (512) 506-2136; HSI at (512) 801-1862; or the DHS-Office of Inspector General at (713) 212-4305.
corruption NORFOLK, VA—Katherine M. Kephart, 31, of Norfolk, Virginia, was sentenced today to 78 months in prison for conspiracy to distribute and possess with intent to distribute five grams or more of methamphetamine, commonly known as “ice.” Kephart’s husband, Charles M. Kephart, 43, of Norfolk, Virginia, was sentenced on January 23, 2014, to 78 months in prison for conspiracy to distribute and possess with intent to distribute five grams or more of methamphetamine. Dana J. Boente, Acting United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, and Royce E. Curtin, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation-Norfolk Office, made the announcement after sentencing by United States District Judge Arenda L. Wright Allen. Katherine Kepart previously waived indictment and pled guilty on August 13, 2013. According to court documents, in November 2012, a cooperating source informed the FBI that Katherine Kephart and her husband were involved in methamphetamine trafficking. The Kepharts were alleged to be obtaining quantities of methamphetamine from sources in the Ashville, North Carolina area and distributing in Virginia. They regularly used methamphetamine and associated with known methamphetamine traffickers. Katherine Kephart, who was a Virginia state probation and parole officer employed by the Virginia Beach Probation Office during this time, utilized her office facilities to further her husband’s drug trafficking activities. She also traveled with her husband to North Carolina to procure methamphetamine and distributed methamphetamine on multiple occasions. On February 28, 2013, Charles Kephart was arrested after he purchased 14 grams of methamphetamine during a controlled sale with the undercover officer. The FBI then executed a federal search warrant on the Kepharts’ residence in Norfolk. The search yielded drug paraphernalia, including at least seven small plastic bags, or baggies; a piece of aluminum foil; four glass pipes; a spoon; two straws; a razor blade; and an electronic scale. Many of these items later tested positive for methamphetamine residue. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Darryl J. Mitchell is prosecuting the case on behalf of the United States. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia at http://www.justice.gov/usao/vae.
corruption LITTLE ROCK—Christopher R. Thyer, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Arkansas, and David T. Resch, Special Agent in Charge of the Little Rock Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, announced that new charges were handed down by a federal grand jury charging Martha Anne Shoffner, age 69, of Newport with 10 counts of mail fraud. The second superseding indictment alleges that Shoffner used $9,800 of campaign funds from her re-election campaign for treasurer of the state of Arkansas for personal expenses. According to the indictment, campaign checks were mailed for payments to a personal Wells Fargo credit card from November 5, 2010 through October 9, 2011. Individual checks ranged from $200 to $5,000. The charges to the credit card included clothing, cosmetics, and other personal expenses. The new counts of mail fraud against Shoffner are in addition to the previous six counts of extortion under color of official right, one count of attempted extortion, and seven counts of receipt of a bribe by an agent of a state government receiving federal funds. Trial is set for March 3, 2014, before United States District Judge J. Leon Holmes. The charges stem from an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s ArkTrust Public Corruption Task Force. The ArkTrust Public Corruption Task Force is composed of FBI agents and task force officers from the Arkansas State Police Department, Pulaski County Sheriff’s Office, and the Little Rock Police Department. If you think you see public corruption contact the public corruption hotline at (501) 221-8200. Mail fraud carries a possible sentence of not more than 20 years’ imprisonment and/or not more than a $250,000 fine with not more than three years of supervised release. An indictment contains only allegations. A defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption BALTIMORE—U.S. District Judge William D. Quarles, Jr. sentenced former Baltimore Police Officer Ashley Roane, age 26, of Pikesville, Maryland, today to five years in prison for extortion and aggravated identity theft. The sentence was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and Commissioner Anthony W. Batts of the Baltimore Police Department. “Ashley Roane sold her police powers for a few thousand dollars, in a disgraceful violation of the public trust,” said U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein. “Ms. Roane agreed to provide armed security for drug deals while in uniform in her patrol car and to check a police database to identify informants. She also used a police database to obtain names, birth dates, and Social Security numbers of arrestees that could be used in a scheme to obtain fraudulent tax refunds from the IRS.” According to her plea agreement, beginning in the fall of 2012, Roane and her roommate Erica Hughes engaged in a scheme whereby they provided the names and Social Security numbers of persons arrested by the Baltimore Police to an individual who could file false tax returns to obtain fraudulent tax refunds. Roane obtained the personal information of more than 30 people from law enforcement databases through her position as a Baltimore Police officer. Roane and Hughes provided the information to the individual, whom they believed worked as a tax preparer, in addition to being a large scale heroin trafficker in Baltimore. On April 4, 2013, FBI agents watched as Roane arrived in her marked police patrol car for a meeting with the individual to obtain a fraudulent tax refund payment. As directed by the individual, Roane retrieved an envelope containing $2,500 from the source’s vehicle. At a recorded meeting on April 24, 2013, the individual went to Roane’s house and gave Roane an additional $1,500 that the FBI had provided to the individual, purported to be a fraudulent tax refund. Roane admitted that she also provided protection for the individual’s purported drug trafficking. For example, on March 31, 2013, Roane told the individual that she had performed an unauthorized criminal check of one of the individual’s alleged associates to determine if the associate was a police informant, and the individual was “clean.” After Roane agreed to provide protection during drug transactions, on April 30, 2013, the FBI set up a controlled purchase by the individual of white powder which resembled a kilogram of heroin. The FBI watched while Roane, in uniform, armed with her service gun and in a marked police car, provided protection while the individual purportedly retrieved heroin from a vehicle provided by the FBI. Shortly thereafter, at a prearranged meeting, the individual paid Roane $500 for her protection. Roane agreed to provide such protection again in a future transaction involving multiple kilograms of heroin. During the course of the schemes, Roane and Hughes received $5,250 from the individual in what Roane believed was proceeds of fraudulent tax refunds. Roane also received a total of $1,000 in exchange for providing protection to the individual during what Roane believed were kilogram-level heroin transactions. Co-defendant Erica Hughes, age 26, of Pikesville, previously pleaded guilty to aggravated identity theft and was sentenced to two years in prison. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI and Baltimore Police Department for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant U.S. Attorney Peter M. Nothstein, who prosecuted the case.
corruption BALTIMORE—U.S. District Judge Ellen L. Hollander sentenced correctional officer Jasmine Thornton, a/k/a J.T., age 26, of Glen Burnie, Maryland, to 32 months in prison, followed by three years of supervised release, for racketeering conspiracy arising from the smuggling of drugs and contraband for members of the Black Guerilla Family (BGF) gang inside the Baltimore City Detention Center (BCDC). The sentence was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Acting Secretary Gregg Hershberger of the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services; Baltimore Police Commissioner Anthony W. Batts; and Baltimore City State’s Attorney Gregg L. Bernstein. This case was developed as a result of the efforts of the Maryland Prison Task Force, formed in 2011 with the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services; local, state, and federal law enforcement agencies; and prosecutors. The task force has met regularly for over three years, generating recommendations to reform prison procedures and producing leads that have been pursued by state, local, and federal criminal investigators. The investigation is continuing. According to court documents, BGF has been the dominant gang at the BCDC and in several connected facilities, including the Baltimore Central Booking Intake Center (BCBIC), the Women’s Detention Center, which houses many men, and in the Jail Industries Building. According to her plea agreement, Thornton worked as a correctional officer at BCDC and BCBIC from 2007 to 2013. She had a personal and sexual relationship with one of the leaders of the BGF inmates at BCDC. Thornton smuggled large quantities of contraband, including marijuana, tobacco, and prescription pills, into BCDC on behalf of the BGF leader and other BGF leaders, including Steve Loney and Tavon White. Thornton also warned inmates of impending searches by prison officers. Thornton is the third correctional officer to be sentenced in the conspiracy. Correctional officers Taryn Kirkland, age 23, and Adrena Rice, age 26, both of Baltimore, previously pleaded guilty to their participation in the conspiracy and were sentenced in January 2014, each to 42 months in prison. Six other correctional officers have pleaded guilty to the racketeering conspiracy and await sentencing. BGF leader Tavon White, age 36, and BGF commander Steven Loney, age 24, also pleaded guilty to the racketeering enterprise. Loney was sentenced on January 14, 2014, to nine years in prison. Tavon White awaits his sentencing. Tyrone Thompson, a/k/a Henry, age 46, who admitted to supplying prescription pills that were smuggled into the jail, will be sentenced tomorrow at 11:30 a.m. U.S. Attorney Rosenstein recognized the efforts of the other members of the Maryland Prison Task Force, including: Colonel Marcus L. Brown, Superintendent of the Maryland State Police; Chief Mark A. Magaw of the Prince George’s County Police Department; United States Marshal Johnny Hughes; Special Agent in Charge Karl C. Colder of the Drug Enforcement Administration-Washington Field Division; Tom Carr, Director of the Washington-Baltimore High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area; and Dave Engel, Executive Director of the Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI, Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services, Baltimore Police Department, and Maryland Prison Task Force for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant United States Attorneys Robert R. Harding and Ayn B. Ducao, who are prosecuting this Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force case.
corruption LAFAYETTE, LA—United States Attorney Stephanie A. Finley announced today that former St. Landry Parish School Board member Quincy Richard Sr., 51, of Opelousas, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Richard T. Haik to 33 months in prison for one count of conspiracy to commit bribery and two counts of bribery. He was also ordered to serve three years of supervised release and to pay a $10,000 fine. A jury found him guilty after a two-day trial on August 20, 2013. During trial, the witness testimony and documents presented revealed that Quincy Richard was shown to have conspired with fellow St. Landry Parish School Board member John Miller, 72, of Opelousas, to receive bribe money from former school board superintendent candidate Joseph Cassimere in return for their support. In July, August, and September 2012, Richard and Miller had a number of private meetings with Cassimere where they negotiated price and payment from Cassimere in exchange for their favorable individual votes as school board members in support of Cassimere’s candidacy for superintendent. At the same time the screening process for the superintendent position was ongoing, and by the week of September 16, 2012, five applicants had been publicly named; the final vote was scheduled for September 26, 2012. Unknown to both school board members, Cassimere had reported Richard and Miller’s plans to the authorities and became a cooperating party in the investigation. The defendants met with Cassimere on September 24, 2012, at the Quarters Restaurant in Opelousas and received $5,000 each in return for their votes. During the conversation, they made it clear that Cassimere’s payment was for their services, efforts, influence, and due diligence relating to the votes of other members of the school board who would support Cassimere’s candidacy. Trial testimony revealed that Richard advised Cassimere that he could recoup the $10,000 bribe by adding that amount to his salary request. Richard and Miller provided Cassimere with instructions on how to justify the salary increase since it was above the amount advertised for the superintendent’s position. The September 24, 2012 discussion was videoed and surveilled by the FBI. After the defendants exited the restaurant, they were confronted by agents who recovered the $5,000 payments in the possession of Quincy and Miller. Miller was indicted on October 24, 2012, and resigned from his position as a school board member on July 28, 2013. He pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery on July 1, 2013. Miller was sentenced on November 19, 2013, to home detention for 10 months and ordered to pay a $15,000 fine. “This closes the door on a very unfortunate chapter for the School Board in Opelousas,” Finley stated. “Quincy Richard was thinking only of himself and not about the children, the community, and the school voard he was elected to serve. This sentence should send a message that public corruption will not be tolerated. I hope the Opelousas School Board can now move forward to take care of the important work that needs to be addressed for the citizens of Opelousas.” “Public corruption is unacceptable within any level or function of government, but when it infiltrates our schools and future generations of the citizenry, there is an even greater need for full accountability,” said Michael J. Anderson, FBI Special Agent in Charge, New Orleans Division. The Federal Bureau of Investigation, Alexandria Resident Agency, conducted the investigation with the assistance of the U.S. Department of Education, Office of Inspector General. Assistant U.S. Attorney Howard C. Parker prosecuted the case.
corruption WILMINGTON, DE—James O. Plumley, the former town manager of Camden, Delaware, was sentenced today by United States District Court Judge Richard G. Andrews to 24 months of imprisonment for his role in a kickback scheme to unlawfully defraud the state of Delaware of more than $200,000 in years 2004 through 2008. In addition to the prison term, Judge Andrews ordered Plumley to repay over $204,000 to the state of Delaware. Prior to his position as the Camden Town Manager, Plumley was employed at Roofing Resources Inc. and was responsible for assisting the state of Delaware’s Division of Facilities Management select qualified contractors to repair and maintain roofs at state-owned facilities. Plumley used this position to steer roofing contracts to his co-defendant, contractor William P. Mahon. In return and at Plumley’s direction, Mahon inflated his project bids by a specified amount, which he later deposited into Plumley’s checking account as a kickback. Over the course of the scheme, the FBI was able to identify $204,000 in kickbacks that Plumley received from Mahon between 2004 and 2008. This case was made possible through substantial cooperation by the Camden Police Department, including Chief of Police William E. Bryson and Captain Gary Melvin, who conducted the initial investigation of Plumley and provided the FBI with a strong foundation for its case here. Charles M. Oberly, III, United States Attorney for the District of Delaware stated, “This is an example of our commitment to work tirelessly with our law enforcement partners to investigate and prosecute individuals who criminally exploit positions of trust within our community. This is especially true when individuals abuse the government’s trust for their own benefit. Hopefully, this prison sentence will serve as a deterrent to others who elevate their own benefit above the duty they owe to the citizens of Delaware.” “Tax payers trust their tax money will be used wisely and not stuffed into the pockets of corrupt people. The reason people who serve governments are held to a higher standard is because they have access to incredible power and influence. It can’t be abused, and the FBI and U.S. Attorney’s Office won’t let it be,” said FBI Baltimore Division Special Agent in Charge Stephen Vogt. The case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Shawn A. Weede and Jennifer L. Hall. For further information, please contact Public Information Officer Kim Reeves at (302) 573-6277, ext. 16287. See Also: United States v. William P. Mahon, Criminal Action No. 13-33-RGA
corruption Six former government contractors and a former Defense Department employee who called himself the “Godfather of Camp Pendleton” have entered guilty pleas in federal court in connection with a scheme involving bribery and kickbacks at federal facilities. The guilty pleas, which also include two corporations, took place over a span of 10 days, culminating with the admissions today of subcontractors Paul Dana Kay of PK Excavation and Manuel Ramirez of MRN Construction Inc. before U.S. Magistrate Judge David H. Bartick to Anti-Kickback Act violations. Likewise, on Tuesday of this week, subcontractors Gerardo Mercado and Raul Mercado of Blue Ocean Construction Inc. entered guilty pleas before Judge Bartick. Last week, former U.S. Department of Defense employee Natividad “Nate” Lara Cervantes, the self-described “Godfather” and government prime contractors Hugo Hernandez Alonso and Bayani Yabut Abueg, Jr. and their companies, Hugo Alonso Inc. (HAI) and MBR Associates, Inc. (MBRA) admitted crimes as well. According to court records, Cervantes used his position at Camp Pendleton to solicit bribes from construction companies HAI and MBRA seeking to do business on the base and referred to himself as the Godfather of Camp Pendleton. At least as early as September 2008, Cervantes admitted using his position supervising construction and service contracts to seek bribes from Alonso and Abueg, on behalf of either HAI or MBRA, to do business at Camp Pendleton. In return for these contracts, Cervantes received cash payments from Alonso and Abueg and remodeling work on a condominium that was paid for by HAI. As part of his plea agreement, Cervantes admitted that as early as 2008, he agreed to accept a bribe of $25,000 to assist Alonso and HAI in obtaining a $3.5 million government contract to install flooring at Camp Pendleton. In arranging for a bribe payment, Cervantes, through a third party conduit, requested that Alonso “have the 25 package” (code for the $25,000 bribe) available on September 5, 2008. On that same day, Alonso provided the $25,000 to the third party conduit for delivery to Cervantes. Cervantes and Alonso admitted that Alonso paid Cervantes at least $74,000 in bribes between 2008 and 2011. Cervantes and Abueg, acting on behalf of HAI, also admitted exchanging an additional $20,000 in bribes during this time, all of which was approved by Alonso. Alonso’s company, HAI, also entered a guilty plea regarding the paying of bribes to Cervantes. The bribes to Cervantes were not limited to just HAI. Both Cervantes and Abueg admitted to exchanging a bribe in 2011 related to the awarding of a $3 million contract at Camp Pendleton to Abueg’s company, MBRA. Further, Cervantes admitted that on March 26, 2013, he met with Abueg, who agreed to pay Cervantes a $40,000 bribe in exchange for assistance in obtaining a new $4 million contract at Camp Pendleton for MBRA. The bribe was to be structured over a number of payments. The first payment was scheduled for March 28, 2013, with the balance of the bribe to be paid after the contract was awarded. On March 28, 2013, Abueg met with Cervantes at a local business on Miramar Road in San Diego, California, to make the first payment that was discussed earlier in the week. During this meeting, Cervantes discussed, among other things, the payment schedule and the source of funds for the bribe payments. At the end of the meeting, Abueg handed Cervantes an envelope containing $10,000 cash. At that point, federal agents intervened. In addition to the bribery scheme, Alonso and Abueg engaged in a vast scheme to solicit kickbacks from subcontractors in exchange for favorable treatment in the awarding of subcontracts on various government contracts awarded to HAI and MBRA. Some of these government contracts were the same contracts at Camp Pendleton improperly awarded to HAI and MBRA with Cervantes’ help in exchange for bribes. Abueg, as a representative of HAI and then MBRA, admitted that between 2008 and 2011, he solicited, received, and accepted more than $539,000 in kickbacks from various subcontractors. The kickbacks typically consisted of cash given to Abueg or to Abueg’s son and checks issued to Abueg, his son, or his daughter, all in an attempt to conceal the nature of the kickbacks. Other kickbacks to Abueg consisted of subcontractors performing discounted work at the personal residences of Abueg’s wife, relatives, and associates, including Cervantes. For some of the kickbacks, Abueg requested that the subcontractors inflate their original estimates for certain work associated with the government contract. The inflated amount used for the kickback was then improperly included in corporate books and records as a legitimate business expense. Separately, Alonso, as representative of HAI, admitted that in 2009, he accepted a kickback in the form of discounted remodeling of his Chula Vista residence by a subcontractor employee. Abueg’s and Alonso’s companies, MBRA and HAI, respectively, also entered guilty pleas regarding the solicitation and acceptance of kickbacks. The four subcontractors who pleaded guilty this week admitted paying tens of thousands of dollars in kickbacks for favorable treatment in their subcontracts with HAI or MBRA. For example, Kay admitted to paying Abueg at least $50,000 in kickbacks, and the Mercados admitted to paying Abueg over $44,000 in kickbacks. “The public confidence of citizens in their government is seriously undermined when federal employees and contractors engage in deceitful, corrupt practices for personal gain,” said U.S. Attorney Laura Duffy. “Corruption exacts a price, and those costs are ultimately born by honest taxpayers and forthright vendors. This office will continue to vigorously prosecute and hold accountable all those who seek personal enrichment at the public’s expense.” FBI Special Agent in Charge Daphne Hearn commented, “The FBI is committed to working with our law enforcement partners in rooting out fraudulent schemes that defraud the Department of Defense and ultimately American taxpayers. Today’s guilty pleas are an example of that continued commitment to the American public to protect our precious tax dollars from waste, fraud, and abuse.” Acting Special Agent in Charge of Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Criminal Investigation for the Los Angeles Field Office Joel P. Garland stated, “Today’s court action reaffirms IRS-Criminal Investigation’s role in combating tax and other financial crimes stemming from bribery of public officials.” Small Business Administration Inspector General Peggy E. Gustafson said, “There is zero tolerance for corruption in SBA’s set-aside contracting programs. We will aggressively pursue allegations of fraud and corruption in these programs and seek justice on behalf of taxpayers. I want to thank the U.S Attorney’s Office and our law enforcement partners for their dedication and hard work throughout this investigation.” “The special agents in my office work hard to fight fraud and protect taxpayer dollars,” said Inspector General Brian D. Miller of the General Services Administration. “We will continue to actively investigate GSA contractors whose ‘business as usual’ involves bribes and kickbacks.” Special Agent in Charge Chris Hendrickson of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS) Western Field Office commented, “We are committed to aggressively pursuing those who abuse the public trust and ultimately undermine the efforts of the Department of Defense to support our warfighters.” Special Agent in Charge Susan M. Simon of the Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS) Southwest Field Office observed, “This investigation once again highlights the excellent cooperation between multiple investigative agencies working together in the pursuit of justice. Combating procurement fraud perpetrated by U.S. Navy and U.S. Marine Corps contract companies and government contracting personnel remains a top priority for the Naval Criminal Investigative Service. It has been a pleasure for NCIS to have worked so closely with our federal partners, including the United States Attorney’s Office, in the successful resolution of this case. We look forward to building on the excellent relationships forged throughout the course of this investigation.” Cervantes, Alonso, and Abueg are scheduled to next appear in court for sentencing before U.S. District Judge Anthony J. Battaglia on April 18, 2014. Kay, Ramirez, Gerardo Mercado, and Raul Mercado are all scheduled to appear for sentencing before Judge Battaglia on April 25, 2014. The public is encouraged to report possible public corruption criminal activity by calling the FBI’s public corruption/border corruption hotline at (877) NO-BRIBE or (877) 662-7423, or by contacting the Department of Defense Hotline at (800) 424-9098 or e-mail at hotline@dodig.mil. Defendant Age Residence Case Number Lara Cervantes Natividad 64 San Diego, California 13cr1345AJB Hugo Hernandez Alonso 50 Chula Vista, California 14cr0120-AJB Bayani Yabut Abueg, Jr. 51 San Diego, California 14cr0144-AJB Gerardo Ricardo Mercado 55 National City, California 14cr0180-AJB Raul Mercado 52 San Diego, California 14cr0181-AJB Paul Dana Kay 66 Santee, California 14cr0187-AJB Manuel Ramirez 47 San Diego, California 14cr0213-AJB Hugo Alonso, Inc. Chula Vista, California 14cr0120-AJB MBR Associates, Inc. National City, California 14cr0144-AJB Summary of Charges Title 18, United States Code, Section 201(b)(2—Bribery of public official Maximum penalties: 15 years’ imprisonment, $250,000 fine, or three times the monetary equivalent of the bribe (Defendant Cervantes only) Title 18, United States Code, Section 371—Conspiracy to commit bribery of public official Maximum penalties for individual defendants: five years’ imprisonment, $250,000 fine, or twice the gross amount of defendant’s pecuniary gain from the offense (Defendants Cervantes, Alonso, and Hugo Alonso Inc.) Title 41, United States Code, Sections 8701, 8702, and 8707-Anti-Kickback Act Violation Maximum penalties for individual defendants: 10 years’ imprisonment, $250,000 fine, or twice the gross amount of defendant’s pecuniary gain from the offense (Defendants Alonso, Hugo Alonso Inc., Abueg, MBR Associates Inc., Gerardo Mercado, Raul Mercado, Kay, and Ramirez) Title 26 United States Code, Section 7206(1)—Filing a false tax return Maximum penalties: three years’ imprisonment, $250,000 fine, or twice the gross amount of the tax loss from the offense (Defendant Abueg only) Investigating Agencies Federal Bureau of Investigation Naval Criminal Investigative Service Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation Department of Defense Criminal Investigative Service General Services Administration, Office of Inspector General Small Business Administration, Office of Inspector General
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida; Michael B. Steinbach, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office; and Manuel Orosa, Chief, City of Miami Police Department, announce that Vital Frederick, 27, a former city of Miami Police Officer, was sentenced to 81 months in prison, three years of supervised release, fined $16,806.33 and ordered to pay forfeiture in the amount of $1,200. Vital was previously convicted after a five day trial before U.S. District Judge K. Michael Moore. The jury returned a guilty verdict on all seven counts in the indictment, including four counts of interference with commerce by extortion, one count of access device fraud, and two counts of aggravated identity theft. The defendant provided protection and security for an illegal check cashing scheme and exploited the police databases to steal identities and sell the identifiers believing they were to be used to commit tax fraud. U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer stated, “There is no compromise when it comes to corruption. It has to be sought out and defeated. As a sworn police officer, Vital Frederick pledged to protect the public. Instead, he abused that trust to victimize those he swore to protect. The Federal Bureau of Investigation Public Corruption Task Force and this office are committed to rooting out public corruption at all levels. This case is a reminder that no one is above the law.” “Law enforcement officers have a great responsibility to the public and therefore must be held to a higher standard of integrity,” said Michael B. Steinbach, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Miami. “The FBI’s Miami Area Corruption Task Force was assembled and designed to ensure that these high standards are met and maintained.” FBI Public Corruption Task Force and the city of Miami Internal Affairs Section initiated an investigation on former Officer Frederick after receiving a report of Frederick’s suspicious activity while on duty. On four separate occasions, between August 2012 and September 2012, Frederick provided protection for a courier whom he believed was cashing fraudulent government checks at the check cashing store. He did so while in full uniform and while driving his marked city of Miami Police Department vehicle. Frederick, in an effort to further facilitate the criminal activity, escorted the courier away from the check cashing store to give the courier safe passage. In exchange for providing security of the courier, who was purportedly cashing fraudulent government checks at the check cashing store, Frederick took receipt of approximately $800 cash. In October 2012, Frederick sold the personal identifiers of 52 individuals to a second cooperating source after accessing city of Miami Police Department databases. During the investigation, city of Miami Police Department Internal Affairs Unit covertly monitored Frederick’s police-issued laptop and found that he conducted searches of the victims whose identities he was selling. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI and the city of Miami Police Department. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Robin Waugh and Michael Davis. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls.
corruption ALEXANDRIA, VA—Jose Calderon, 42, of Sterling, Virginia, was sentenced today to 30 months in prison, followed by three years of supervised release, for engaging in a bribery scheme that resulted in the issuance of driver’s licenses to illegal aliens. Dana J. Boente, Acting United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, and Valerie Parlave, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office, made the announcement after sentencing by United States District Judge Leonie M. Brinkema. “Schemes such as this, trading cash for DMV documents, undermine the enforcement of our immigration laws and potentially threaten public safety,” said Acting U.S. Attorney Boente. “The U.S. Attorney’s Office is committed to combatting public corruption at all levels of government, and we thank our partners at the FBI for their commitment to this issue.” “Allegations of public corruption will not be overlooked or downplayed, and those who take part in such activity will be held responsible for their crimes,” said Assistant Director in Charge Parlave. “Citizens who observe behavior like this are encouraged to call the FBI.” On November 6, 2013, Calderon pleaded guilty to conspiracy to bribe an employee at Virginia’s Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV), a state agency that receives federal funding. According to court documents, from September 2007 to July 2010, Calderon solicited cash payments from illegal aliens in return for helping them secure DMV documents for which they were not eligible. After Calderon collected cash from ineligible applicants, he provided a DMV employee, Maria Cavallaro, 45, of Springfield, Virginia, a portion of the money to induce her to falsely verify that the ineligible applicants had produced documentation establishing their eligibility for the requested DMV documents. As part of this scheme, Calderon brought more than 100 ineligible applicants to the DMV Service Center located at the Fair Oaks Mall to obtain driver’s licenses, learner’s permits, and identification cards. Maria Cavallaro pleaded guilty to participating in the conspiracy and also was sentenced during court proceedings today. A third defendant, Noemi Barboza, 42, of Sterling, Virginia, previously entered a guilty plea to the bribery conspiracy, and she will be sentenced on February 14, 2014. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation with assistance from the Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Investigations. Assistant United States Attorney Rebeca H. Bellows prosecuted the case on behalf of the United States. Any person who believes they may have information regarding public corruption in the Northern Virginia area is encouraged to contact the FBI’s Northern Virginia Public Corruption Hotline at 703-686-6225 or NOVAPC@ic.fbi.gov. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia at http://www.justice.gov/usao/vae.
corruption OKLAHOMA CITY—James Lee Loman, 71, of McLoud, Oklahoma, a former item manager at Tinker Air Force Base, was sentenced today to 30 months in prison for conspiring to commit wire fraud, accepting bribes, and participating in government contracting under an illegal conflict of interest, announced Sanford C. Coats, United States Attorney for the Western District of Oklahoma. In July 2013, a federal jury heard evidence that from approximately 2002 to 2006, Loman accepted large cash payments from an individual associated with Daytona Aerospace Inc., of Deerfield Beach, Florida, in exchange for favorable treatment in the U.S. Air Force’s purchasing of aircraft replacement parts. The evidence included numerous faxes that Loman sent from his home in McLoud to the individual in Florida. Some of these faxes calculated his bribe payments based on a percentage of aircraft sales to the air force, beginning at five percent and ending at 10 percent. Other faxes kept track of the amount of bribes due and the amount already paid to him. Still other faxes were “collection letters” that used coded language. Loman drove to Florida on multiple occasions to pick up the cash in increments of approximately $50,000. The faxes showed total cash bribes in the amount of $838,200. The jury unanimously found Loman guilty on all three charges. Today, Chief Judge Vicki Miles-LaGrange sentenced Loman to 30 months in the custody of the Federal Bureau of Prisons. The judge explained that the sentence was lower than she would normally have imposed because of Loman’s age and severe health issues. The court ordered Loman to pay $843,200 in restitution to the Department of Defense and has also entered a forfeiture money judgment in the amount of $838,200. This sentence is the result of an investigation by the Defense Criminal Investigative Service and the United States Air Force Office of Special Investigations, with assistance from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Office of Inspector General for the U.S. Department of Transportation. The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Scott E. Williams and Chris M. Stephens.
corruption Todd Ryan Frazier, 31, of Grand Rapids, Michigan, entered a plea of guilty in federal district court to an indictment charging embezzlement and theft from the Carterville School District—a unit of local government that received federal funds—the United States Attorney for the Southern District of Illinois, Stephen R. Wigginton, announced today. The offense carries a total statutory maximum sentence of up to 10 years in prison, a fine of up to $250,000, and mandatory restitution. Sentencing has been scheduled for May 8, 2014. “Theft from the taxpayers, whether by force and violence, or with a pen, will not be tolerated.” said United States Attorney Wigginton. “In this and all such cases, my office will seek full restitution and will aggressively pursue its collection.” According to information revealed in court, Frazier, from August 2008 and continuing through February 2012, engaged in a scheme to defraud the Carterville School District, Unit 5, in Williamson County, Illinois, while he was the school business official. This job included the duties and responsibilities to act as the treasurer and payroll officer for the district. In court, the United States indicated that the loss was approximately $114,000 and that restitution should include the costs of audits conducted in ascertaining the loss amount. Although Frazier pled guilty to one count of a multiple-count indictment, his conduct in the remaining counts is considered as relevant conduct by the court in determining the appropriate sentence to impose. The successful prosecution is the result of an investigation conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The prosecution is being handled by Assistant U.S. Attorney Norman R. Smith.
corruption DAVENPORT, IA—On January 28, 2014, an indictment charging Robert L. Budd, Jr. (Budd), formerly of Brown Traffic Products Inc. (Brown Traffic) of Davenport, Iowa, and Robert W. Webster (Webster), a former city electrician for the city of Bettendorf, Iowa, was unsealed, announced United States Attorney Nicholas A. Klinefeldt. The 13-count indictment charges Budd and Webster with conspiracy and bribery in connection with Webster’s work at the city of Bettendorf. The city of Bettendorf, Iowa, is a government agency that has received funds under federal programs involving grants, contracts, or other forms of federal assistance in excess of $10,000 each year over the past several years and has conducted transactions with Brown Traffic in amounts exceeding $5,000. The Budd and Webster indictment alleges that Webster received money; airfare to such places as Florida, Texas, and Nevada; tickets for racecar events and other forms of entertainment; lodging expenses for hotels and resorts in such places as Florida, Texas, Nevada, Kansas, and Illinois; meals; drinks; cigars; and golf and resort fees. The court also unsealed two other files involving David Schiltz (Schiltz), the former CEO of Brown Traffic, and Daniel Fuchs (Fuchs), a former high-level manager and sales representative of Brown Traffic. Schiltz and Fuchs have entered guilty pleas and agreed to cooperate with the government’s investigation. Within their plea agreements, both men admitted they conspired with Budd to corruptly giveand offer to give things of value to Webster and others, acting with the intent to influence and reward Webster in connection with transactions between the city of Bettendorf and Brown Traffic for traffic control devices and services. Budd has entered a plea of not guilty and a trial is presently scheduled for April 7, 2014. Webster is expected to appear in court later this week. The public is reminded that an indictment is only an accusation, and the defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. The case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and is being prosecuted by the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Iowa.
corruption United States Attorney Laura E. Duffy announced that Jeffrey Bednarek, a former employee at the California Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) in El Cajon, California, pleaded guilty late yesterday to his aggravated role in a conspiracy to commit bribery and identification document fraud, bribery, and witness tampering. Bednarek entered his guilty plea before U.S. Magistrate Judge William V. Gallo. According to the plea agreement, Bednarek was a licensing registration examiner at the El Cajon DMV who was responsible for conducting driving tests for driver’s license applicants. Bednarek admitted that, beginning in at least April 2009 and continuing up to at least April 26, 2012, he conspired with his co-defendants to commit federal program bribery and identification document fraud. Bednarek admitted that he falsely entered passing scores for both written and behind-the-wheel tests for applicants who applied for regular (Class C) and commercial (Class A) driver’s licenses in exchange for bribes. Bednarek also acknowledged that he directed others to enter false passing test scores and that he created false driving test score sheets to create the appearance that the applicant had completed the test. Bednarek said in his plea agreement that during the conspiracy, he produced more than 100 fraudulent driver’s permits and licenses and that applicants paid more than $50,000 in total bribes for permits and licenses that he fraudulently produced. While awaiting an upcoming trial that was scheduled for December 2, 2013, Bednarek tampered with one of the government’s witnesses, the plea agreement said. According to court documents, Bednarek was arrested on November 13, 2013, a complaint for witness tampering. On November 22, 2013, U.S. District Judge Cathy A. Bencivengo ordered that Bednarek be detained pending trial. Bednarek admitted in his plea agreement that between January 26, 2013 and November 4, 2013, he knowingly attempted to corruptly persuade a government witness to alter his testimony, namely, to provide false testimony regarding cash bribes that Bednarek had received for his aggravating role in the conspiracy. Bednarek admitted that he intended to prevent and influence the government witness’s testimony in the trial that was scheduled for December 2, 2013. Of the 30 defendants charged in this widespread corruption scheme (related Criminal Case Nos. 12CR1852-CAB and 13CR0592-CAB), all 30 defendants, including Bednarek, have pleaded guilty to felony conduct, namely, conspiracy to commit bribery and identification document fraud. Many of these defendants have been sentenced, and several others are currently awaiting sentencing. Bednarek is next scheduled to be in court before United States District Judge Cathy A. Bencivengo for sentencing on April 25, 2014, at 9:00 a.m. These cases are the result of an active, ongoing criminal investigation. Anyone with information about corruption at the DMV is asked to contact the Federal Bureau of Investigation at 1-877-NO-BRIBE (662-7423) or the DMV’s Investigations Branch-Office of Internal Affairs at 626-851-0173. Defendant Criminal Case No. 12CR1852-CAB Jeffrey T. Bednarek Summary of Charges Count one: Title 18, United States Code, Section 371-conspiracy to commit bribery and to produce unauthorized identification documents; statutory maximum sentence of five years’ custody, a maximum fine of $250,000, special assessment of $100, and a maximum term of supervised release of three years Count two: Title 18, United States Code, Section 666(a)(1)(B)-bribery; statutory maximum sentence of 10 years’ custody, special assessment of $100, and a maximum term of supervised release of three years Count seven: Title 18, United States Code, Section 1512(b)(1)-witness tampering; statutory maximum sentence of 20 years’ custody, a maximum fine of $250,000, special assessment of $100, and a maximum term of supervised release of three years Investigating Agencies Federal Bureau of Investigation Department of Motor Vehicles-Investigations Division
corruption A former Puerto Rico Department of Corrections officer was sentenced today to serve 811 months in prison for his role in providing armed security for three drug transactions. Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Rosa E. Rodriguez-Velez of the District of Puerto Rico, and Special Agent in Charge Carlos Cases of the FBI’s San Juan Field Office made the announcement. Bernis Gonzalez Miranda, 27, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Juan Perez Gimenez of the District of Puerto Rico. He was charged in a superseding indictment unsealed on October 28, 2010, along with 89 law enforcement officers in Puerto Rico and 44 other individuals, as part of the FBI undercover operation known as Guard Shack. In April 2012, a federal jury in San Juan found Gonzalez Miranda guilty of three counts of conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute more than five kilograms of cocaine, three counts of attempting to possess with the intent to distribute more than five kilograms of cocaine, and three counts of possessing a firearm in furtherance of a drug transaction. According to the evidence presented in court, Gonzalez Miranda provided security for what he believed were illegal cocaine deals on June 15, July 2, and July 7, 2010. In fact, the purported drug transactions were part of an undercover FBI operation. On those days, the defendant’s actions included providing armed protection for the deals and escorting the buyer into and out of the transaction. In return for the security he provided, Gonzalez Miranda received a cash payment of $2,000 for each transaction, and at sentencing he was ordered to forfeit the $6,000 he received. The case was investigated by the FBI. The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Kevin Driscoll and Monique Abrishami of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section. The U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Puerto Rico also participated in the investigation and prosecution of this case.
corruption MEMPHIS, TN—Sean McWhirter, 30, of Memphis, Tennessee, was sentenced today to one year and one day in federal prison following his guilty plea to one count of transportation of individuals in interstate commerce for the purpose of prostitution (Mann Act), announced United States Attorney Edward L. Stanton, III and A. Todd McCall, Special Agent in Charge of the Memphis Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. According to the facts alleged in the indictment and revealed during plea and sentencing hearings, on September 13, 2012, while on duty and in his patrol car, McWhirter agreed to transport three women to a location in Tunica, Mississippi, for the purpose of prostitution. Subsequently, on September 16, 2012, while off duty, McWhirter delivered two women from Memphis to a hotel in Tunica. Upon entering the room with the women, McWhirter was arrested by special agents and task force officers of the FBI. McWhirter was a five-year veteran of the Memphis Police Department who was serving as a patrolman at the time of his arrest. McWhirter pleaded guilty to the charge on October 7, 2013. In addition to the prison sentence, U.S. District Judge S. Thomas Anderson ordered McWhirter to serve five years of supervised release. There is no parole in the federal system. This crime was investigated by the Tarnished Badge Task Force, which is composed of investigators from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Memphis Police Department, and Shelby County Sheriff’s Office. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Brian K. Coleman on behalf of the government.
corruption Former Austin Police Officer Jermaine Gaspard, age 34, faces up to five years in federal prison after pleading guilty this afternoon to making a false statement to federal authorities, announced United States Attorney Robert Pitman, U.S. Secret Service Acting Special Agent in Charge Ben Bass, Federal Bureau of Investigation Special Agent in Charge John Boles, San Antonio Division, and Austin Police Chief Art Acevedo. Appearing before United States Magistrate Judge Andrew Austin in Austin this afternoon, Gaspard admitted that he made a false statement to federal authorities conducting a credit card fraud investigation. According to the factual basis filed in this case, in April 2013, Gaspard knowingly accessed the mobile data terminal inside his Austin Police Department (APD) patrol car and performed an unauthorized database check on a subject. Subsequently, Gaspard showed the subject the APD report he discovered, which included the fact that there was a pending indictment related to the subject’s fraudulent use of a credit card. When questioned by federal authorities, Gaspard denied providing the information to the subject. Gaspard is out on bond pending sentencing. No sentencing date has been scheduled. This investigation was conducted by agents with the U.S. Secret Service and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, together with the Austin Police Department. Assistant United States Attorney Gregg N. Sofer is prosecuting this case on behalf of the government.
corruption ST. LOUIS, MO—Thomas Stritzel, former chief of the St. Louis Park Rangers, was sentenced to 36 months in prison on charges that he and Joseph Vacca, former deputy commissioner of the St. Louis Parks Division, defrauded the city of St. Louis of approximately one-half million dollars by submitting false invoices for materials and services supplied to the Parks Division. He appeared before United States District Judge Carol E. Jackson in St. Louis. According to court documents at the time of their guilty pleas, from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2012, Vacca and Stritzel embezzled funds of the city of St. Louis based upon the submission of sham and false invoices, which included false charges of approximately $472,722. They used the funds for their own personal use, including lease payments on personal vehicles, fuel costs, the payment of personal credit card charges, and other personal living expenses unrelated to the legitimate operations of the St. Louis Parks Division. Vacca and Stritzel set up a sham company called Dynamic Management and then funneled city funds received through the submission of false and sham invoices to Dynamic Management’s bank account. They then used those fraudulently obtained funds for their own personal use, including leasing personal vehicles, payment of fuel costs, and the payment of personal credit card charges. Stritzel, St. Louis, Missouri, was also ordered to pay restitution of $472,722. Joseph Vacca, St. Louis, Missouri, was sentenced in December to 36 months in prison and ordered to pay restitution to the city of St. Louis in the amount of $472,722. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department. Assistant United States Attorney Hal Goldsmith is handling the case for the U.S. Attorney’s Office.
corruption TOPEKA, KS—The former treasurer of the Mayetta Rural Fire District #1 pleaded guilty Monday to embezzling from the district, U.S. Attorney Barry Grissom said. In his plea, the defendant agreed to an order that he pay $427,042 in restitution. Richard P. Bontrager, 67, Holton, Kansas, pleaded guilty to one count of embezzlement. In his plea, he admitted that in 2008, he began embezzling from the fire district by issuing checks with the forged signatures of members of the board of the fire district. The checks were made payable to R&S Services, a fictitious entity Bontrager created so he could deposit the fraudulent checks into his own account at Denison State Bank. From 2008 to 2012, he made approximately $427,042 in unauthorized transfers from the fire district’s accounts. In addition, without the knowledge of the board of the fire district, he falsified loan documents to obligate the fire district to monthly lease payments on a Polaris Ranger UTV and a 1988 Chevrolet 1-ton brush truck. He created false board minutes to make it appear the board had approved the lease payments. Sentencing is set for April 14. He faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in federal prison and a fine up to $250,000. The Jackson County Sheriff’s Office and the FBI investigated. Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard Hathaway is prosecuting.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—William Hird, 68, of Philadelphia, Pennsylavania, pleaded guilty today to taking part in a fraud scheme involving judges at the former Philadelphia Traffic Court. Hird, who was director of Records at the time, pleaded guilty to 18 counts, including conspiracy, wire fraud, mail fraud, and lying to the FBI when questioned about ticket-fixing at Traffic Court. Hird is the fourth defendant to plead guilty in the fraud conspiracy that the government alleges involved frequent and pervasive ticket-fixing at the Philadelphia Traffic Court. U.S. District Court Judge Robert F. Kelly has not yet set a sentencing date. Hird faces a possible advisory sentencing guideline range of 12 to 18 months in prison, before variances or departures. Former traffic court judge Fortunato Perri, Sr., who pleaded guilty on March 13, 2013, would receive traffic citation numbers, the names of offenders, or the actual citations to arrange fixing the ticket and would convey the information to William Hird. Hird, in turn, allegedly conveyed the request to the assigned judge or the judge’s staff. Hird was extremely loyal to Perri given that Perri helped Hird move up the ladder to a high-level administrator at Traffic Court. Recorded conversations demonstrate that Hird acceded to Perri’s requests to fix certain tickets. Given Hird’s position at Traffic Court and access to the judges, Hird was able to facilitate requests for ticket fixing for Perri. As part of the scheme, tickets were fixed by either being dismissed, finding the ticket holder not guilty, or finding the ticket holder guilty of a lesser offense. In many cases, the ticket holder did not even appear in Traffic Court, yet his/her ticket was fixed. As a result, the ticketholders paid lesser or no fines and costs and evaded the assessment of points on their driver’s record. This widespread ticket-fixing defrauded both the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the City of Philadelphia of funds and allowed potentially unsafe drivers to remain on the roads. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Denise S. Wolf and Anthony J. Wzorek.
corruption At 11:00 a.m. on Sunday, January 26, 2014, Marc Damas, age 45, of Oahu, was arrested by special agents from the Honolulu FBI, along with investigators from the Hawaii Department of Public Safety Internal Affairs Division and Sheriff Division. Mr. Damas was arrested at the Halawa Correctional Facility where he was employed as an adult corrections officer. Mr. Damas was charged via criminal complaint with one count of violating Title 21, United States Code Section 846: conspiracy to distribute and possess with intent to distribute five grams or more of methamphetamine. The statutory maximum penalty for this crime is 40 years in prison. Following his arrest, Mr. Damas was transported to the Honolulu FBI Division in Kapolei for processing and then to the Federal Detention Center, where he will spend the night awaiting his initial appearance in U.S. District Court. The arraignment will likely be at 2:00 p.m. on Monday, January 27, 2014, in the courtroom of U.S. Magistrate Judge Barry M. Kurren. The Honolulu FBI conducted the underlying investigation leading to this indictment in coordination with the state of Hawaii Department of Public Safety and the IRS-Criminal Investigative Division. Honolulu FBI Special Agent in Charge Vida Bottom said, “Both the FBI and the Department of Public Safety will continue to work together to ensure the integrity of Hawaii’s correctional facilities. We recognize that the vast majority of adult corrections officers are dedicated public servants who put their lives on the line every day for the greater good. However, when allegations of corruption arise among prison employees, we will work with prison management to investigate wrongdoing and bring the corrupt to justice.” Please remember that a criminal complaint is merely an allegation and that the defendant is innocent unless and until being found guilty in court.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—Robertito Fontan, 42, a former narcotics officer with the Philadelphia Police Department, was found guilty today of two counts of making false statements to federal investigators concerning his romantic relationship with one of the police department’s confidential informants. In 2003, Fontan recruited Person #1 to become a confidential informant and recommended her as a confidential informant to other law enforcement officers. Several months later, Fontan became intimately involved with Person #1. During their relationship, Fontan gave gifts and money to Person #1. In 2007, the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) began investigating Person #1’s former paramour, a suspected drug dealer, and Fontan was assisting with the investigation. In 2008, the FBI began investigating a suspected leak of information in the DEA investigation. As part of the leak investigation, the FBI interviewed Fontan about his intimate relationship with Person #1. The jury found that Fontan lied to agents about his relationship with Person #1 and about giving gifts and money to Person #1. Fontan faces a maximum possible sentence of 10 years in prison. A sentencing hearing is scheduled for April 28, 2014. The case was investigated by the FBI and the Philadelphia Police Department. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Neuman Leverett.
corruption DENVER—Scott T. Black, age 39, of Firestone, Colorado, and Oscar S. Garcia, age 35, of Aurora, Colorado, were indicted by a federal grand jury on charges related to drug trafficking, making false statements, and unauthorized access of law enforcement databases, U.S. Attorney John Walsh, FBI Denver Special Agent in Charge Thomas Ravenelle, and DEA Denver Division Special Agent in Charge Barbra Roach announced. Garcia was arrested early Thursday morning without incident. Black, a Glendale Police officer at the time of the alleged crimes, turned himself in to FBI special agents at the Lakewood Police Department mid-day Thursday. Garcia appeared in U.S. District Court in Denver yesterday afternoon, where he was advised of his rights and the charges pending against him. Black is scheduled to appear in U.S. District Court in Denver at 2:00 p.m. this afternoon before U.S. Magistrate Judge Kristen L. Mix to be advised of his rights and the charges pending against him. The U.S. Attorney’s Office is seeking detention. According to the indictment, which was returned by a federal grand jury on January 6, 2014, but restricted from public view prior to the arrest of the defendants, Garcia is charged with trafficking cocaine to people known and unknown to the grand jury. Black allegedly assisted Garcia with the cocaine trafficking by using his official law enforcement position to request Glendale Police Department dispatchers to “run” license plates through the Colorado Crime Information Center (CCIC) and the National Crime Information Center (NCIC). This was done in order to facilitate the defendants’ alleged drug trafficking. Black is also accused on two separate instances of lying to an FBI agent. The trafficking conspiracy alleged in the indictment allegedly started in March 2011 and continued through December 2013. To the best of our knowledge, no other Glendale Police officers were involved in this incident. Garcia faces three counts of possession with intent to distribute and knowingly distribute cocaine, which carries a penalty of not more than 20 years in federal prison and up to a $1,000,000 fine per count. He faces one count of use of a communications facility to facilitate drug trafficking, which carries a penalty of not more than four years’ imprisonment and up to a $250,000 fine. He faces one count of intentionally gaining unauthorized access to a computer, which carries a penalty of not more than five years’ imprisonment and up to a $250,000 fine. Garcia faces one count of conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute cocaine, which carries a penalty of not less than five years and not more than 40 years in federal prison and up to a $5,000,000 fine. Lastly, defendant Oscar Garcia faces one count of conspiracy to gain unauthorized access to a computer data base. That crime carries a penalty of not more than five years in federal prison and up to a $250,000 fine. Black faces one count of use of a communications facility to facilitate drug trafficking, which carries a penalty of not more than four years’ imprisonment and up to a $250,000 fine. He faces two counts of intentionally gaining unauthorized access to a computer, which carries a penalty of not more than five years’ imprisonment and up to a $250,000 fine per count. Black faces two counts of knowing and willfully making a materially false representation (to an FBI agent), which carries a penalty of not more than five years’ imprisonment and up to a $250,000 fine. Lastly, the defendant faces one count of conspiracy to gain unauthorized access to a computer data base. That crime carries a penalty of not more than five years in federal prison and up to a $250,000 fine. This case was investigated by the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Colorado Bureau of Investigation (CBI), and the Aurora Police Department. The Glendale Police Department cooperated during all aspects of the investigation. The defendants are being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys David Conner and Guy Till. The charges contained in the indictment are allegations, and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption In Waco this afternoon, former Normangee Police Chief Joseph Ray “Jody” Navarro pleaded guilty to unlawfully obtaining information from a law enforcement computer system, announced United States Attorney Robert Pitman. Appearing before United States District Judge Walter S. Smith, the 41-year-old Madisonville, Texas resident pleaded guilty to one count of intentionally exceeding authorized access to a protected computer. By pleading guilty, Navarro admitted that in May 2013, he ran a background check on a license plate and name supplied to him by suspected methamphetamine trafficker and Normangee resident Brenda Antanette Evans, age 45. As a condition of his guilty plea, Navarro must relinquish his Texas peace officer’s license. Should the court accept Navarro’s guilty plea, Navarro faces up to one year in federal prison and a maximum $100,000 fine at sentencing scheduled for March 19, 2014. Previously, Evans and co-defendant 25-year-old Joshua Troy Thomas of Normangee pleaded guilty to conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute methamphetamine. According to court records, on April 26, 2013, during an undercover investigation, Evans purchased close to one ounce of methamphetamine from Thomas on behalf of an undercover agent for approximately $1,200. Earlier this month, Judge Smith sentenced Evans to five years in federal prison. Thomas, who faces up to 20 years in federal prison, is scheduled to be sentenced on February 12, 2014. This investigation was conducted by the Texas Department of Public Safety Criminal Investigation Division, Leon County Sheriff’s Office, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Mary Kucera is prosecuting this case on behalf of the government.
corruption WASHINGTON—Donnie Dukes, a former compliance officer for the District of Columbia Public Schools, has pled guilty to charges in a scheme involving more than $460,000 in fraudulent payments to a private transportation company that he owned and controlled. The plea was announced by U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen, Jr.; Valerie Parlave, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office; Charles J. Willoughby, Inspector General for the District of Columbia; and Steven Anderson, Special Agent in Charge, Mid-Atlantic Regional Office, Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Education. Dukes, 40, of Hyattsville, Maryland, pled guilty on January 22, 2014, in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, to wire fraud and conflict-of-interest charges. The Honorable Ketanji Brown Jackson scheduled sentencing for June 17, 2014. Under federal sentencing guidelines, the parties have agreed that Dukes faces a prison sentence of 27 to 33 months, as well as potential financial penalties. The plea agreement calls for Dukes to pay a total of $463,621 in restitution to the District of Columbia. He also has agreed to a forfeiture money judgment of $300,000. According to the government’s evidence, Dukes worked from October 2008 until October 2010 as a compliance officer for the District of Columbia Public Schools (DCPS). His duties included making arrangements for transportation for the special needs students who received education services outside of the District of Columbia. At the same time, however, Dukes owned and controlled a private company that provided, among other services, transportation to students who needed to travel from the District of Columbia to education centers outside of the District of Columbia for special services. While working at DCPS, Dukes personally referred, or caused colleagues of his at DCPS to refer, 86 out-of-state student transports to his company, resulting in the firm receiving $325,000 in payments from the District of Columbia Office of the State Superintendent of Education. Of this, the government’s evidence showed, $163,621 involved illegitimate expenses. Dukes was terminated from DCPS in October 2010 as part of an overall reduction in the workforce. He then schemed to obtain non-public lists of students needing transportation services from his former colleagues at DCPS. Dukes later used these lists to create false invoices and supporting documentation for payments to his company in the names of the students. Dukes created 60 false invoices and supporting documentation through this scheme, causing the District of Columbia Office of the State Superintendent of Education to pay his company $300,000 for transportation services that never were provided. In announcing the plea, U.S. Attorney Machen, Assistant Director in Charge Parlave, Inspector General Willoughby, and Special Agent in Charge Anderson commended the work of those who investigated the case from the FBI’s Washington Field Office, the District of Columbia Office of Inspector General, and the U.S. Department of Education’s Office of Inspector General. They also acknowledged the efforts of those who worked on the case from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, including Legal Assistant Nicole Wattelet and Assistant U.S. Attorney Seth B. Waxman, who is prosecuting the case.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, and Michael B. Steinbach, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI), Miami Field Office, announce that Manuel L. Maroño, the former mayor of the city of Sweetwater, was sentenced to 40 months in prison and two years of supervised release by U.S. District Judge William J. Zloch for conspiring to commit honest services wire fraud involving a scheme to personally benefit himself through the use of his elected position as mayor of Sweetwater. U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer stated, “The judge correctly likened political corruption to cancer. Today’s sentence sends a message to public officials: selling the public’s trust will put you in federal prison.” “The sentence received by Manuel L. Marono today was not only for violating the law but also for undermining the public’s trust in their elected official,” said Michael B. Steinbach, Special Agent in Charge of the Miami Division. “Marono was brought to justice in large part due to the dedication and commitment of the members of the Miami Area Corruption Task Force.” According to documents filed with the court, in late November 2011, Maroño and his co-conspirator, Jorge Forte, a lifelong friend of Maroño and a lobbyist, agreed to aid a company known as Sunshine Universal to obtain federal grant funds for the stated reason of preparing an economic development study for Sweetwater, all in exchange for cash kickbacks to Maroño and Forte. Although Maroño and Forte were unaware, Sunshine Universal was, in fact, an undercover FBI entity. To aid the scheme, Maroño caused the passage of a resolution in Sweetwater that authorized the undercover agents’ company to apply for federal grant moneys using the authority of the city of Sweetwater. After the resolution was passed, Maroño and Forte personally met and negotiated with the undercover agents and accepted a series of cash payments in exchange for Maroño’s official actions in support of the grant scheme. During these negotiations and meetings, Forte acted as the front man for Maroño. To further the scheme and avoid detection, Maroño also participated in what he believed to be audit telephone calls from the federal government to confirm the grantees’ performance on the grant. During two separate audit calls, both of which were recorded, Maroño lied to and misled the auditor, who was in fact an undercover FBI agent, about the actual use of the grant money and the grantee’s performance. For their corrupt actions, Maroño and Forte received $45,000. Mr. Ferrer commends the investigative efforts of the FBI. This case was prosecuted Assistant U.S. Attorneys Jared E. Dwyer and Robert K. Senior. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls.
corruption SAN DIEGO, CA—Ravneet Singh, the proprietor of Washington, D.C.-based ElectionMall Inc., was arraigned today on charges that he conspired to finance political campaigns using money from an illegal foreign source. Singh was arrested by FBI agents on Friday, January 17, 2014, pursuant to an arrest warrant. According to the complaint, filed by an FBI special agent, unsealed by U.S. Magistrate Judge William V. Gallo, Singh conspired with former San Diego Police detective Ernesto Encinas and others to funnel more than $500,000 of illegal foreign money into San Diego municipal and federal campaigns, primarily in 2012 and 2013. Singh’s company, ElectionMall Inc., was also charged as a defendant. According to the complaint, Singh, who styled himself the "campaign guru," was the president, chief executive officer and founder of ElectionMall Inc., a company that provided social media services and other campaign and election products to political candidates throughout the world. Encinas was the owner of a private security and consulting business in San Diego who oversaw the protection detail of a person identified in the complaint only as "the Foreign National." Between approximately 2011 and 2013, Singh and Encinas helped the Foreign National donate hundreds of thousands of dollars to a series of candidates for elective office—including during the 2012 San Diego mayoral election, a 2012 Congressional campaign, and the 2013 San Diego special mayoral election (up to, but not after, December 2013). Despite the Foreign National’s willingness to contribute funds, he could not legally donate to any of these campaigns. Under federal law, "foreign nationals" are prohibited from making any contributions or expenditures in connection with any American electoral campaign—whether at the federal, state, or local level. Knowing this, Singh and Encinas allegedly used a series of increasingly complex techniques to hide the fact that the Foreign National was the true source of these illicit campaign funds. According to the complaint, Encinas—among other devices—helped mask the Foreign National’s contributions through the use of shell companies. Similarly, Singh used his expertise to facilitate the donation of social media services to political candidates that the Foreign National favored. The complaint alleges that these contributions—sometimes classified as "in-kind contributions"—were not reported in any campaign filings and totaled nearly $300,000. According to the complaint, the Foreign National’s illegal contributions included: a $100,000 contribution to a SuperPAC $100,000 in unreported compensation for campaign services a $30,000 contribution to a political party committee another $190,000 in unreported compensation for campaign services a $150,000 contribution to another SuperPAC a $30,000 contribution to another political party committee the promise of a "mill" in additional contributions According to the complaint, Encinas wanted the next mayor to fire the chief of police and replace him with a person of Encinas’ choosing in exchange for the Foreign National’s financial help. Complaints are not evidence that the defendant committed the crime charged. All defendants are presumed innocent until the United States meets its burden in court of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. Defendant in Case Number 14MJ0201 Ravneet Singh Age: 41 Washington, D.C. ElectionMall, Inc. Ernesto Encinas Age: 57 San Diego, California Summary of Charges and Maximum Penalties Count one: conspiracy to commit offenses against the United States-18 U.S.C. § 371 Maximum penalties: five years in prison, three years of supervised release, $250,000 fine, and a $100 special assessment INVESTIGATING AGENCIES Federal Bureau of Investigation Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation San Diego Police Department
corruption HOUSTON—April Carson, 35, of Houston, has been ordered to federal prison for accepting payoffs from parolees, announced United States Attorney Kenneth Magidson. Carson was employed as a Texas Department of Criminal Justice (TDCJ) parole officer and pleaded guilty August 27, 2013. Today, U.S. District Judge Lee H. Rosenthal accepted arguments of counsel and a plea for leniency by the defense based on Carson’s lack of criminal record and sentenced Carson to 18 months in federal prison. She will also have to serve a term of three years of supervised release following her release from prison. Carson was responsible for the supervision of state inmates. As part of her duties, she supervised parolees and their travel between the states, as well as their activities to ensure they did not engage in criminal conduct. Carson was found guilty of accepting $2,000 from a parolee on October 15, 2012, to allow him to travel while under her supervision. She was permitted to remain on bond and voluntarily surrender to a U.S. Bureau of Prisons facility to be determined in the near future. The operation was a combined public corruption task force effort conducted by the FBI, Texas Rangers, Houston Police Department, and TDCJ-Office of Inspector General. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney James McAlister with the assistance of the Harris County District Attorney’s Office.
corruption ATLANTA—Dwayne Penn, formerly a police officer with the Clayton County Police Department assigned to the U.S. Marshals Service Fugitive Task Force, has pleaded guilty to conspiring to distribute over five kilograms of cocaine. “This office is committed to protecting the public’s trust in law enforcement,” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. “Penn was a drug dealer with a badge. He used his official position to traffic drugs and now faces a significant sentence for his betrayal of trust.” Ricky Maxwell, Acting Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated, “Today’s guilty plea brings to an end one man’s law enforcement career while providing an opportunity for those many others working within the criminal justice system to re-examine their own oaths and re-dedicate themselves to those oaths. The FBI will continue to make public corruption matters, in particular those involving law enforcement officers, a priority investigative matter.” Harry S. Sommers, the Special Agent in Charge of the DEA Atlanta Field Division, stated, “This case is a reminder that law enforcement officers are held to a higher standard and are not above the law. This officer is not representative of the honest and hard-working men and women in law enforcement who do not violate their oaths but faithfully protect and serve the public daily.” According to United States Attorney Yates, the charges, and other information presented in court, in August 2013, Penn, who was employed with the Clayton County Police Department at the time, conspired with Adrian Austin, an Atlanta-based drug dealer, to use Penn’s official position as a police officer to stage a fake traffic stop of a car that he and Austin believed would contain six kilograms of cocaine, conduct a fake arrest of the car’s occupant, seize the cocaine for themselves, and then sell the cocaine, sharing their ill-gotten gains. Fortunately, the person whom Penn and Austin sought to recruit for this corrupt endeavor was cooperating with federal law enforcement and agreed to record his/her meetings with Penn and Austin. In the lead-up to the fake arrest and seizure, Penn and Austin met face-to-face with the confidential informant on two separate occasions to plan their operation. Penn drove his police car to the planning meetings. While together, Penn, Austin, and the confidential informant discussed the confidential informant obtaining cocaine from his/her drug source of supply. Penn would then conduct a fake traffic stop and arrest of the confidential informant in front of the source, using Penn’s police vehicle and lights, and seize the cocaine, leading the source to mistakenly believe the drugs had been seized by law enforcement. They would divide up the seized cocaine among themselves according to the plan. As part of the charade, Penn agreed to handcuff the confidential informant, put the drugs in the trunk of his police car, and drive the confidential informant to a second location. During one of the meetings, Penn even drove Austin and the confidential informant around the parking lot, scouting out possible spots for various events the next day. Penn reassured the confidential informant that they could cover his/her tracks with the source of supply to deflect suspicion. As planned, on the morning of August 28, 2013, Penn and Austin arrived at the appointed Decatur parking lot. Penn drove his police car and parked it in view of where the drug deal was to occur. While waiting, Penn ran the tags of a number of vehicles in the area through law enforcement databases. Penn also called task force officers with the DeKalb County Police Department and DeKalb County Sheriff’s Office and asked if DeKalb County had any surveillance vehicles that fit the description of vehicles Penn saw in the parking lot that morning. Penn rebuffed offers of assistance from his fellow officers, claiming he was just doing surveillance. Before the deal’s consummation, the confidential informant met with Austin in Austin’s car in the parking lot. Austin relayed information between the confidential informant and Penn over his cellphone. The confidential informant and Austin discussed the imminent deal, with the confidential informant’s describing where s/he would put the drugs after receiving them. The confidential informant exited Austin’s car and shortly thereafter met with the supposed drug dealer (also a law enforcement source) in the parking lot in view of Penn. The confidential informant received a shopping bag containing six kilogram-size bricks of fake cocaine, walked back to his/her vehicle, and placed the bag inside, placing two kilogram bricks in the back seat and leaving the remaining four kilogram bricks in the shopping bag in the front seat. After the confidential informant emerged from his/her vehicle, Penn sped over in his police car with the lights on and blocked the confidential informant from leaving. Penn jumped out of his car with his firearm drawn and pointed it at the confidential informant. Penn was wearing a bulletproof vest, which read “Police,” and a black baseball hat. Penn ordered the confidential informant to get on the ground and to keep his/her “hands behind your back,” which the confidential informant did. Penn holstered his firearm, picked up the confidential informant from the ground, and patted him/her down. Penn then ushered the confidential informant into Penn’s police car. The confidential informant told Penn that s/he had already taken his/her two and that there were four in the bag. Penn walked over to the confidential informant’s vehicle and removed the shopping bag with the four kilogram bricks from the front seat, leaving the confidential informant’s share (two kilograms) in the car. Penn placed the shopping bag in the trunk of his police car, told the confidential informant to “get out of here,” and drove away with the cocaine-like substance, leaving the confidential informant and the two kilogram bricks behind at the parking lot. Penn and Austin were arrested shortly afterward in the vicinity of the Decatur parking lot. Each had a loaded firearm with a round in the chamber. The shopping bag with substituted cocaine was recovered from Penn’s vehicle. On August 28, 2013, Penn was terminated from the Clayton County Police Department and the Marshals Service Task Force. His co-defendant, Adrian Austin, pleaded guilty to the same charge on January 14, 2014. Pursuant to the negotiated plea agreements into which Penn and Austin entered, they each have agreed to a binding 10-year term of imprisonment, to be followed by five years of supervised release. Sentencing for Penn is scheduled for February 21, 2014, at 2:00 p.m., before United States District Judge Amy Totenberg. Sentencing for Austin is scheduled for April 10, 2014, at 2:00 p.m. also before United States District Judge Totenberg. The case is being investigated by special agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Drug Enforcement Administration. Assistant United States Attorney Scott Ferber is prosecuting the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Presse-mails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia is www.justice.gov/usao/gan.
corruption RICHMOND—A federal grand today returned a 14-count indictment against former Virginia Governor Robert F. McDonnell and former First Lady Maureen G. McDonnell for allegedly participating in a scheme to violate federal public corruption laws. Dana J. Boente, Acting United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia; Mythili Raman, Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Department’s Criminal Division; Jeffrey C. Mazanec, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI’s Richmond Field Office; Richard Weber, Chief of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI); and Colonel W. Steven Flaherty, Virginia State Police Superintendent, made the announcement. The indictment, returned in the Eastern District of Virginia, charges Robert McDonnell and Maureen McDonnell, both 59 and of Glen Allen, Virginia, with one count of conspiracy to commit honest-services wire fraud; three counts of honest-services wire fraud; one count of conspiracy to obtain property under color of official right; six counts of obtaining property under color of official right; and one count of making false statements to a federal credit union. Robert McDonnell is also charged with an additional count of making a false statement to a financial institution, and Maureen McDonnell is charged with one count of obstruction of an official proceeding. “I thank the Assistant U.S. Attorneys, FBI, Virginia State Police, and the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation for their exceptional efforts in the investigation of this case,” said Acting U.S. Attorney Boente. “We will continue to work tirelessly with our law enforcement partners to investigate and prosecute public corruption.” “Today’s charges represent the Justice Department’s continued commitment to rooting out public corruption at all levels of government,” said Acting Assistant Attorney General Raman. “Ensuring that elected officials uphold the public’s trust is one of our most critical responsibilities.” “One of the most important investigative responsibilities with which the FBI is tasked is ensuring that the integrity of our elected public officials has not been compromised,” said FBI SAC Mazanec. “The Richmond Division of the FBI and our law enforcement partners have diligently worked this lengthy, detailed, and sensitive matter. I want to thank all those who have worked very hard and with great care on this investigation.” “The state police and FBI agents assigned to this case have devoted an extensive amount of time and effort to this matter,” said Colonel Flaherty. “They are to be commended for their professionalism, objectivity, and dedication to duty in conducting this highly complex and sensitive investigation.” “Public officials hold positions of trust and must accept the transparency and accountability that our laws require and their constituents expect,” said IRS-CI Chief Weber. “IRS-CI stands committed to investigating those officials. This case should serve as a strong warning to those who might consider similar behavior. No one is above the law, and everyone is accountable for their misdeeds.” According to the indictment, from April 2011 through March 2013, the McDonnells participated in a scheme to use the former governor’s official position to enrich themselves and their family members by soliciting and obtaining payments, loans, gifts, and other things of value from Star Scientific, a Virginia-based corporation, and “JW,” then Star Scientific’s chief executive officer. The McDonnells obtained the things of value in exchange for the former governor performing official actions on an as-needed basis to legitimize, promote, and obtain research studies for Star’s products, including the dietary supplement Anatabloc®. As alleged in the indictment, the McDonnells obtained from JW more than $135,000 in direct payments as gifts and loans, thousands of dollars in golf outings, and numerous other things of value. As part of the alleged scheme, the official actions that Robert McDonnell performed included arranging meetings for JW with Virginia government officials, hosting and attending events at the Governor’s Mansion designed to encourage Virginia university researchers to initiate studies of Star’s products and to promote Star’s products to doctors for referral to their patients, contacting other Virginia government officials as part of an effort to encourage Virginia state research universities to initiate studies of Star’s products, and promoting Star’s products and facilitating its relationships with Virginia government officials. The indictment further alleges that the McDonnells attempted to conceal the things of value received from JW and Star to hide the nature and scope of their dealings with JW from the citizens of Virginia by, for example, routing things of value through family members and corporate entities controlled by the former governor to avoid annual disclosure requirements. Moreover, the indictment alleges that on October 3, 2012, Robert McDonnell sent loan paperwork to a lender that did not disclose the loans from JW, and, on February 1, 2013, the McDonnells signed loan paperwork submitted to another lender that did not disclose the loans. Similarly, the indictment alleges that on February 15, 2013, Maureen McDonnell was questioned by law enforcement about the loans and made false and misleading statements regarding the defendants’ relationship with JW. Three days later, on February 18, 2013, Robert McDonnell is alleged to have sent loan paperwork to one of the previously mentioned lenders disclosing the loans from JW. Additionally, after her interview with law enforcement, Maureen McDonnell allegedly wrote a handwritten note to JW in which she falsely attempted to make it appear that she and JW had previously discussed and agreed that she would return certain designer luxury goods rather than keep them permanently, all as part of an effort to obstruct, influence, and impede the investigation. An indictment is merely an accusation, and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. If convicted, the McDonnells could each face a maximum statutory sentence of 20 years in prison and a fine of the greater of $250,000 or twice the gross gain or loss on the conspiracy to commit honest-services wire fraud count, the honest-services wire fraud counts, the conspiracy to obtain property under color of official right count, and the obtaining property under color of official right counts; a maximum statutory sentence of 30 years in prison and a fine of the greater of $1,000,000 or twice the gross gain or loss on the false statement counts; and a maximum statutory sentence of 20 years in prison and a fine of the greater of $250,000 or twice the gross gain or loss on the obstruction of an official proceeding count. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Michael S. Dry, Jessica D. Aber, and Ryan S. Faulconer of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia and Deputy Chief David V. Harbach, II of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section. The case is being investigated by the FBI, IRS-CI and the Virginia State Police. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia at http://www.justice.gov/usao/vae.
corruption WASHINGTON—Neil S. Rodgers, a former District of Columbia government official, was indicted today on federal charges stemming from his role in channeling $110,000 in youth and drug prevention grant funds used to pay for an inaugural ball. The indictment, returned by a grand jury in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, was announced by U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen, Jr.; Valerie Parlave, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office; and Thomas J. Kelly, Special Agent in Charge of the Washington Field Office of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation. Rodgers, 61, of Washington, D.C., served as the committee director of the Council of the District of Columbia’s Committee on Libraries, Parks, Recreation, and Planning. He was indicted on three felony charges, including one count each of theft concerning programs receiving federal funds, wire fraud, and first-degree fraud. Rodgers faces a maximum sentence of 20 years of incarceration if convicted of all charges. Six others have pled guilty to charges in the overall investigation into activities involving former Council Member Harry L. Thomas, Jr. Thomas pled guilty in January 2012 to charges stemming from a scheme in which he used more than $350,000 in taxpayers’ money that was earmarked for the arts, youth recreation, and summer programs for his own personal benefit, including paying for vehicles, clothing, and trips. He resigned in January 2012 as a condition of his plea agreement and is now serving a 38-month prison sentence. The others who have pled guilty include James Garvin and Marshall D. Banks, leaders of one of the non-profits used in the scheme. Both men, from the Langston in the 21st Century Foundation, pled guilty to misprision of a felony, a charge holding them accountable for failing to report and concealing the misappropriation of $392,000 in government grants. Additionally, Danita C. Doleman, the president of Youth Technology Institute, pled guilty to filing a false tax return in connection with her assistance in funneling public money to pay for the 51st State Inaugural Ball. Millicent D. West, the former director and chief executive officer of a non-profit organization that promotes youth opportunities, pled guilty to a criminal tax charge for her role in channeling the youth grant funds to pay for the ball. Finally, Ayawna Webster, an aide who also worked as a chief of staff for Thomas, pled guilty to attempting to interfere with the administration of the Internal Revenue Service laws. Garvin and Banks were sentenced to three years of supervised probation and 80 hours of community service and were ordered to pay full restitution. Doleman, West, and Webster are awaiting sentencing. “Today’s indictment charges Neil Rodgers with stealing tax dollars meant for children to throw a $100,000 black-tie party for adults,” said U.S. Attorney Machen. “This prosecution is the final step in our investigation of the criminal activities of former D.C. Council member Harry Thomas, Jr., which has resulted in six guilty pleas. The results of this investigation are a reminder of the grave consequences for government employees and others who knowingly facilitate the illegal actions of corrupt elected officials.” “Today’s indictment is an example of what happens when a public servant becomes complicit in corrupt behavior rather than standing up to it,” said Assistant Director in Charge Parlave. “Knowingly submitting false and misleading documents to support a larger scheme at the direction of a public official is illegal. The FBI will investigate allegations of corruption at all levels and hold those who allow it accountable for their actions.” Before becoming Committee Director, Rodgers worked for many years at the District of Columbia Department of Parks and Recreation, serving as chief of staff and acting director. Thomas, who took office in January 2007 as the Ward 5 representative, served during his first term as chair of the Council’s Committee on Libraries, Parks, Recreation, and Planning, which involved oversight responsibility for the D.C. Department of Parks and Recreation. In that role, he worked with a non-profit public-private partnership that provided resources and developed programs to benefit children and youth in the District of Columbia. The partnership was primarily funded by the District of Columbia government through funds designated by the Mayor and Council for particular youth-related purposes. The partnership provided grants to organizations for programs tailored for children and youth. The charges against Rodgers deal with his role in securing funds for the 51st State Inaugural Ball, held on January 20, 2009, in the Wilson Building. Thomas was closely involved in the planning the event. In addition to her work duties, Ayawna Webster was the president of a local chapter of a political organization. She and her political organization served as the host of the ball, and she then organized the event at Thomas’s direction. Ticket sales and other contributions failed to raise enough money to pay the expenses associated with the 51st State Inaugural Ball. Following the ball, Webster’s political organization owed vendors approximately $100,000. According to the indictment, Rodgers participated in a scheme to channel money through a grant from the public-private partnership, meant for youths, to Webster’s political organization so that these expenses would be paid. The plan hit an obstacle, however, when questions were raised about the legality of granting money to a political organization. The grant recipient was changed to the Youth Technology Institute, another non-profit organization. Even though Rodgers knew that this organization had no involvement with the ball, according to the indictment, he requested $120,000 in grant funds on its behalf. On February 5, 2009, based on the false grant paperwork submitted by Rodgers, the public-private partnership issued a check in the amount of $110,000 to the Youth Technology Institute, the indictment alleges. In truth, after the grant was issued, the Youth Technology Institute immediately forwarded nearly the entire amount to Webster’s political organization, which paid expenses from the 51st State Inaugural Ball. An indictment is merely a formal charge that a defendant has committed a violation of criminal laws, and every defendant is presumed innocent until, and unless, proven guilty. This case is being investigated by the FBI’s Washington Field Office and IRS-CI. It is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys James E. Smith and David Johnson, of the Fraud and Public Corruption Section of the U.S. Attorney’s Office.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, and Michael B. Steinbach, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office, announce that George Brown, 50, of Hollywood, Florida, pled guilty to a one-count information charging him with accepting bribes in connection with programs receiving federal funds, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 666. Brown’s sentencing has been set for March 28, 2014, at 10:00 a.m. before U.S. District Judge James I. Cohn. According to the stipulated statement of facts executed by the parties, Brown was the Roadway Lighting coordinator for the Department of Public Works (Public Works) in Miami-Dade County. In this capacity, Brown was responsible for, among other things, overseeing the installation and/or maintenance of more than 24,000 street lights in the county’s roadway system. In 2011, a lighting contractor offered to provide Brown with “rewards” in exchange for Public Works’ purchase of the contractor’s lighting products. Brown agreed and subsequently accepted more than $13,000 in bribes from the contractor in 2011 and 2012. The bribes included appliances, computer equipment, and other merchandise, all paid for by the contractor. Among the merchandise that Brown received from the contractor was a 2.5-ton air conditioning unit, a Samsung stainless steel refrigerator, and a KitchenAid built-in single electric convection oven. The merchandise was either shipped directly to Brown’s home address or picked up by Brown at the contractor’s business in Miami. During the investigation, the contractor began to cooperate with law enforcement and recorded the conversations with Brown. In one recorded conversation, Brown assured the contractor that no one else knew about their arrangement. In another recorded conversation, the two discussed delivery to Brown of certain merchandise costing approximately $2,600 in exchange for Brown’s assistance on a Public Works’ project on 27th Avenue in Miami. Brown faces a possible maximum statutory sentence of 10 years in prison. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeffrey N. Kaplan. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls.
corruption ALBUQUERQUE—Earlier today, a federal judge sentenced the former executive director of the Taos County Housing Authority (TCHA) and her husband to prison terms for conspiring to steal federal funds. The couple also was ordered jointly to pay $786,014.04 in restitution. Carmella Martinez, 42, of Arroyo Seco, New Mexico, was sentenced to 30 months in federal prison, and her husband Paul G. Martinez, 44, was sentenced to 24 months of imprisonment. Each will serve a two-year term of supervised release when released from custody. The sentences were announced by Acting U.S. Attorney Steven C. Yarbrough; Special Agent in Charge Phyllis Grissom Robinson, Region 6, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Office of Inspector General; and Special Agent in Charge Carol K.O. Lee of the Albuquerque Division of the FBI. Carmella and Paul Martinez were charged in December 2012 in a 49-count federal indictment with conspiracy, theft from programs receiving federal funds, and theft of government property. The indictment alleged that between November 2003 and December 2011, Carmella and Paul Martinez stole federal funds provided by HUD to the TCHA for a housing program that provides affordable housing for low-income Americans. During that time, Carmella Martinez was employed by the TCHA, initially as a financial specialist and later as its executive director. HUD is a federal agency with a core mission to make quality, affordable housing accessible to all Americans. It oversees and funds programs designed to provide affordable housing to low-income Americans, including the Housing Choice Voucher Program, which is commonly referred to as “Section 8.” Through the Section 8 Program, HUD pays rent subsidies known as “Housing Assistance Payments” (HAP) to approved property owners and landlords on behalf of eligible low-income beneficiaries. The TCHA administers the Section 8 Program on behalf of HUD in Taos County and receives approximately $2.8 million in funds annually from HUD. According to the indictment, while employed by the TCHA, Carmella Martinez was responsible for processing HAP checks to approved Section 8 property owners and landlords and providing preliminary approval of requests for rent subsidies to property owners and landlords under the Section 8 Program. She abused her position with TCHA by conspiring with her husband to engage in the theft of Section 8 housing funds. Carmella Martinez stole the money by issuing fraudulent HAP checks for Section 8 housing assistance to payees, including to Paul Martinez and to bank accounts held by her and Paul Martinez. Carmella and Paul Martinez then presented the fraudulent checks for payment at various locations. The couple pled guilty in August 2013 to count one of the indictment charging them with conspiracy to commit theft concerning programs receiving federal funds and to commit theft of government property. In her plea agreement, Carmella Martinez admitted that she began issuing fraudulent, duplicate Section 8 HAP checks for the benefit of herself and her husband in 2000 and that her husband began conspiring with her to steal federal funds from the TCHA in 2003. Carmella Martinez admitted that she and her husband engaged in their unlawful scheme until December 2011, when they learned they were the subjects of a criminal investigation and that she and her husband stole at least $786,014.04 in federal funds through their unlawful scheme. In his plea agreement, Paul Martinez admitted that he began conspiring with his wife to steal funds from TCHA, a program that receives federal funds, in 2003 and that their scheme continued until December 2011, when they learned about the criminal investigation that led to the indictment against them. As required by the plea agreements, the United States moved to dismiss the remaining 48 counts of the indictment after Carmella and Paul Martinez have been sentenced. Special Agent in Charge Phyllis Grissom Robinson of Region 6 of HUD’s Office of Inspector General said, “The sentence imposed against Ms. Martinez and her husband should send a strong message that the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, Office of Inspector General will aggressively investigate those who fail to exercise integrity in connection with HUD programs, the end result will be both unpleasant and costly to the offending party.” “For many low-income people in New Mexico, government rent assistance can mean the difference between having a roof over their heads or being homeless. Stealing from these programs is like taking money out of the pockets of those who need it the most,” said Special Agent in Charge Carol K.O. Lee of the FBI’s Albuquerque Division. “The FBI will continue to work with our partners to make sure this kind of crime is aggressively investigated and the guilty parties brought to justice. I thank the FBI special agents who worked on this case, along with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Office of Inspector General and the U.S. Attorney’s Office.” Acting U.S. Attorney Steven C. Yarbrough commended the HUD Office of Inspector General, the Albuquerque Division of the FBI, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Shana B. Long for their work on the case.
corruption ATLANTA—Raytosha Elliott, a former contracting official with the Georgia Department of Defense, has been indicted for allegedly awarding contracts in exchange for illegal kickbacks. “Ms. Elliott took advantage of the trust her job afforded her to award no-bid contracts by giving them to her friends,” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. “The defendants pocketed nearly $75,000 from their scheme for work that was never completed and denied services meant to maintain facilities supporting those who serve this country.” Ricky Maxwell, Acting Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated, “This case is a direct result of government personnel detecting criminal financial irregularities and reporting them to the proper authorities. The FBI will continue to dedicate significant investigative resources to ensure that federal money is spent appropriately and as intended.” Special Agent in Charge John F. Khin, Southeast Field Office, Defense Criminal Investigative Service, said, “In partnership with other law enforcement agencies, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service aggressively pursues all allegations of fraud and corruption impacting the Department of Defense and our warfighting mission to ensure that American taxpayer dollars are not wasted or stolen.” “The prosecution of individuals who manipulate normal business transactions in an effort to enrich themselves has always been a priority of IRS and our law enforcement partners,” stated Veronica F. Hyman-Pillot, Special Agent in Charge, IRS-Criminal Investigation. “We are proud to have contributed our financial expertise in order to ensure that those who engage in these illegal activities are vigorously investigated and brought to justice.” “This case is an excellent example of federal and state law enforcement working together to fight corruption,” said Vernon M. Keenan, Director of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation. Interim Inspector General Deb Wallace of the State of Georgia Office of Inspector General said, “Our office is dedicated to strengthening the trust between the citizens of Georgia and their public officials by continuously pursuing fraud, waste, abuse, and corruption within the executive branch of state government. We would like to thank and recognize the Georgia Department of Defense for its vigilance and willingness to report irregularities within its contracting process. We appreciate the many investigative agencies who assisted on this case through countless hours of hard work to bring it to resolution.” According to United States Attorney Yates, the charges, and other information presented in court, from May 2007 through April 2012, Elliott worked for the Georgia Department of Defense, the state agency charged with coordinating and supervising all agencies and functions of the Geogia National Guard. Elliott worked as an engineering operations manager out of the Clay National Guard Center, located at Dobbins Air Reserve Base, in Marietta, Georgia. In that position, Elliott worked with engineering firms to develop bid-ready construction projects, prepared bid documents, and oversaw no-bid purchase orders. Under the rules governing the contracting process that Elliott oversaw, projects that cost less than $5,000 did not need to go through a competitive bidding process, allowing Elliott to award the contracts. She then certified that the work had been completed for those projects and facilitated payment to the vendors who allegedly completed such projects. In that position, Elliott awarded numerous contracts under $5,000 to vendor companies created by her friends and associates, including co-defendant Lakeysha Ellis. In return, the friends and associates paid Elliott kickbacks, equal to 50 percent of the value of the contracts, for steering the contracts to them. Elliott falsely certified that work had been completed when, in fact, it had not been in order to facilitate payment. One of the vendor companies was Total Source Solution LLC, owned by co-defendant Ellis. Elliott awarded Total Source Solution 17 contracts with a total value of approximately $75,000. Those contracts were for a variety of services supposedly to be performed by Total Source Solution, including electrical work, landscaping, and HVAC work. But the work was never done. Instead, the defendants split the money awarded under these contracts and spent it on personal items, including travel, meals, merchandise, and even liposuction treatment for Ellis. As part of the scheme, Elliott owned a company named Tech Group Investments LLC. Ellis took money she had obtained from the Georgia Department of Defense contracts and paid kickbacks to Elliott through this company. The indictment also alleges that Ellis and Elliott conducted a similar fraud scheme from January 2009 through May 2011, when Ellis was an accountant at Baumueller-Nuermont Corporation, an industrial equipment company with offices in Atlanta. Her job responsibilities included payroll and paying vendors. While employed as Baumueller-Nuermont’s accountant, Ellis fraudulently funneled money to the defendants’ two sham companies, Total Source Solution and Tech Group Investments. Ellis wrote corporate checks to Total Source Solution, signed her name on the checks, and forged the signature of the vice president on the checks, to ensure that the checks could be negotiated. Ellis recorded these payments in the check registry to reflect falsely that the checks had been issued to true vendors (such as American Express) when in fact they went to Ellis’ company. As part of the scheme, Ellis also falsified employee records in the corporation’s payroll system to disguise payments to the defendants’ two companies. Ellis created at least two phantom employees by altering the names of real employees (by switching their first and last names) and slightly changing their Social Security numbers. She then caused the payroll system to make fraudulent salary payments to Total Source Solution and Tech Group Investments for these new, non-existent employees. Baumueller-Nuermont lost about $85,000 from this scheme. The 10-count indictment charges Elliott, 33, and Ellis, 36, both of Atlanta, Georgia, with two counts of conspiracy and seven counts of wire fraud. Elliott is also charged with accepting a bribe or kickback as a public official. Members of the public are reminded that the indictment contains only allegations. The defendant is presumed innocent of the charges, and it will be the government’s burden to prove the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt at trial. This case is being investigated by special agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; the Georgia Bureau of Investigation; the U.S. Department of Defense, Office of Inspector General, Defense Criminal Investigative Service; Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation; the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command; and Deputy Inspectors General of the State of Georgia Office of the Inspector General. Assistant United States Attorney Stephen H. McClain is prosecuting the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Presse-mails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Atlanta Division ishttp://www.justice.gov/usao/gan/.
corruption WASHINGTON—A former sergeant of the Portsmouth Sheriff’s Office (PSO) was sentenced to serve 15 months in prison today for accepting bribes in exchange for favors and referrals. Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and Acting U.S. Attorney Dana J. Boente of the Eastern District of Virginia made the announcement. Melvin Hike, 65, of Portsmouth, Virginia, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Arenda L. Wright Allen of the Eastern District of Virginia. Hike was also sentenced to serve three years of supervised release and to pay a $10,000 fine. On October 8, 2013, Hike pleaded guilty to conspiracy and federal programs bribery. According to court documents, throughout the relevant time period of 2008 to 2012, Hike was a PSO sergeant assigned to the warrant squad. Ulysses Stephenson, aka “Tugger,” was a bail bondsman based in Portsmouth whose income depended on the number of arrestee clients he served. At various times between 2008 and 2012, Stephenson gave Hike cash payments and other items of value, and in exchange, Hike referred arrestees to Stephenson as prospective clients. Stephenson previously pleaded guilty to conspiracy and federal programs bribery in connection with bribing Hike, and he was sentenced to 30 months in prison on November 2, 2012. This case was investigated by the FBI. The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Monique Abrishami and Peter Mason of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Amy E. Cross of the Eastern District of Virginia.
corruption BALTIMORE, MD—U.S. District Judge Ellen L. Hollander sentenced correctional officer Taryn Kirkland, age 23, of Baltimore, to 42 months in prison followed by two years of supervised release, and Black Guerrilla Family (BGF) member and commander Steven Loney, age 24, today to nine years in prison followed by three years of supervised release, for racketeering conspiracy arising from the smuggling of drugs for members of the BGF gang inside the Baltimore City Detention Center (BCDC). The sentences were announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Acting Secretary Gregg Hershberger of the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services; Baltimore Police Commissioner Anthony W. Batts; and Baltimore City State’s Attorney Gregg L. Bernstein. According to court documents, BGF has been the dominant gang at the BCDC and in several connected facilities, including the Baltimore Central Booking Intake Center, the Women’s Detention Center (which houses many men), and in the Jail Industries Building. According to their plea agreements, Kirkland worked as a correctional officer at BCDC where BGF member Loney was an inmate. For a time, Loney was a cellmate of Tavon White, the leader of BGF at BCDC. Following his transfer to another section, Loney became the commander of one of two BGF regimes at BCDC, and answered only to Tavon White. Throughout 2011 to 2013, Loney often directed the smuggling of contraband into BCDC by BGF members and associates, especially through the services of correctional officers. Loney became involved in sexual relationships with correctional officers, including Kirkland. Kirkland frequently smuggled contraband, including marijuana and prescription pills, into BCDC on behalf of Loney. Kirkland also helped other correctional officers, such as Jennifer Owens, smuggle drugs into BCDC for other BGF inmates such as Tavon White. Correctional officer Adrena Rice, age 25, of Baltimore previously pleaded guilty to her participation in the conspiracy and was sentenced on January 8, 2014 to 42 months in prison. BGF leader Tavon White, age 36, also pleaded guilty to the racketeering enterprise and is scheduled to be sentenced on February 20, 2014 at 10:00 a.m. Outside supplier James Yarborough, aka J.Y., age 27, of Baltimore, is scheduled to have a rearraignment tomorrow at 10:00 a.m. The case arose from the efforts of the Maryland Prison Task Force, a group of local, state, and federal law enforcement agencies and prosecutors that met regularly for more than two years and generated recommendations to reform prison procedures. The investigation is continuing. U.S. Attorney Rosenstein recognized the efforts of the other members of the Maryland Prison Task Force, including: Colonel Marcus L. Brown, Superintendent of the Maryland State Police; Chief Mark A. Magaw of the Prince George’s County Police Department; United States Marshal Johnny Hughes; Special Agent in Charge Karl C. Colder of the Drug Enforcement Administration-Washington Field Division; Tom Carr, Director of the Washington-Baltimore High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area; and Dave Engel, Executive Director of the Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI, Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services, Baltimore Police Department, and Maryland Prison Task Force for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant United States Attorneys Robert R. Harding and Ayn B. Ducao, who are prosecuting this Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force case.
corruption FRANKFORT, KY—Former Commissioner of the Kentucky Department of Agriculture Richard Dwight Farmer, Jr. was sentenced today to 27 months in federal prison and one year supervised release for misappropriating public resources during his tenure in office. U.S. District Judge Gregory Van Tatenhove sentenced Farmer for theft from a program receiving federal funds. In addition to the prison term, Farmer will also be required to pay $120,500 in restitution to the Commonwealth of Kentucky and a special assessment of $200. Judge Van Tatenhove released Farmer on his own recognizance and ordered Farmer to report to prison to begin serving his sentence on March 18, 2014, at 1:00 p.m. At a later date, the Bureau of Prisons will determine to which prison Farmer will report. Farmer will have to serve at least 85 percent of his prison sentence. “We appreciate the court’s thoughtful decision regarding Mr. Farmer’s sentence,” said U.S. Attorney Kerry B. Harvey. “This sad episode now concludes, but we hope that it sends a lasting message that neither political power nor celebrity places anyone above the law. The public has been well-served by the dedicated law enforcement officers and prosecutors who prepared and prosecuted this case—their commitment to the task is noteworthy and appreciated.” During his guilty plea in September 2013, Farmer admitted that he misappropriated a total of $120,500 by hiring friends who didn’t perform work to justify their salaries and purchasing a number of items for his personal use with Kentucky Department of Agriculture (KDA) funds. Specifically, Farmer admitted that in 2008, he used approximately $19,500 in KDA money to buy excessive gifts for a KDA-sponsored conference. Farmer purchased rifles, rifle cases, knives, and gift cards, purportedly for use at the conference; but he actually took the items for his own use. Farmer further acknowledged that in both 2008 and 2011, he misappropriated thousands of dollars in labor costs by putting friends on the public payroll, knowing they would perform little or no actual work for the KDA. Farmer was elected to two terms as Commissioner of Agriculture and was responsible for the supervision and administration of the KDA from January 2004 until January 2012. Farmer was indicted by a federal grand jury in April of last year. Kerry B. Harvey, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky; Perrye Turner, Special Agent in Charge, FBI; and Jack Conway, Kentucky Attorney General, jointly announced the sentence today. The investigation was conducted by the Kentucky Attorney General’s Office and the FBI. The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Kenneth R. Taylor and Andrew T. Boone and trial attorney Sean Mulryne with the Public Integrity Section of the United States Department of Justice.
corruption JOHNSTOWN, PA—A resident of Johnstown, Pennsylvania, has been indicted by a federal grand jury in Johnstown on charges of violating federal extortion and bribery laws, United States Attorney David J. Hickton announced today. The six-count indictment named Ronald W. Repak, 62. According to the indictment presented to the court, Repak, while serving as executive director of the Johnstown Redevelopment Authority (JRA), engaged in conduct in violation of the Hobbs Act for extortion under color of official right and engaged in multiple acts of federal program bribery. Specifically, in exchange for Repak’s official actions and influence as the executive director of the JRA to facilitate the award of JRA contracting work, Repak solicited and obtained from local contracting firms a new roof for his personal residence, building demolition and grading services at Evolution Gym (his son’s privately owned business), and multiple Pittsburgh Steelers football game tickets. The law provides for a maximum total sentence of 90 years in prison, a fine of $1,500,000, or both. Under the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, the actual sentence imposed would be based upon the seriousness of the offenses and the prior criminal history, if any, of the defendant. Assistant United States Attorney Stephanie L. Haines is prosecuting this case on behalf of the government. The Laurel Highlands Resident Agency of the Federal Bureau of Investigation conducted the investigation that led to the prosecution of Repak. An indictment is an accusation. A defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption TOPEKA, KN—The former executive director of the housing authority in Linn, Kansas, pleaded guilty Friday to a federal theft charge, U.S. Attorney Barry Grissom said. Debra L. Savage, 53, Linn, Kansas, pleaded guilty to one count of theft from a federal program. In her plea, she admitted that between December 3, 2009 and December 1, 2012, she used a credit card issued to the Linn Housing Authority for personal expenses totaling more than $7,652. Sentencing is set for April 4. She faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in federal prison and a fine up to $250,000. Grissom commended the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development-Office of Inspector General, the FBI, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Christine Kenney for their work on the case.
corruption LUBBOCK, TX—Inoe R. Valdez, Jr., 43, a former deputy sheriff with the Yoakum County Sherriff’s Department (YCSD), was sentenced this morning by U.S. District Judge Sam R. Cummings to serve 48 months in federal prison and a year of supervised release on a federal conviction stemming from his involvement in a cocaine distribution conspiracy, announced U.S. Attorney Sarah R. Saldaña of the Northern District of Texas. He must surrender to the Bureau of Prisons by February 14, 2014. Valdez pleaded guilty to one count of unlawful use of a communications facility. Valdez admitted that from July 2009 until approximately August 2010, he used a cell phone to commit, cause, and facilitate a conspiracy to distribute and possess with the intent to distribute cocaine and distribution and possession with intent to distribute cocaine. According to documents filed in the case, in February 2010, investigators with the Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) learned that Valdez was associating with a particular individual who was suspected of trafficking controlled substances in Yoakum County, Texas. Following a traffic stop of this individual, DPS learned that this individual had Valdez’s cell phone number saved in his cell phone and, in fact, had made 15 calls to and received one call from Valdez during the period November 1, 2009 to March 18, 2010. This individual advised DPS that Valdez had instructed him/her to call or text him and say that he/she “had some information” for Valdez, which would be the signal for Valdez to go to that individual’s home so they could discuss narcotics-related matters. This individual advised that in winter 2009, Valdez asked him/her for three to four ounces of cocaine to give to another individual in Brownsfield, Texas. This individual sold Valdez three ounces of cocaine for $2,100. This individual also advised DPS that this was not the only time he/she furnished cocaine to Valdez. In June 2010, a person working at the direction of the DPS met Valdez and asked Valdez for $50 worth of cocaine. Valdez advised this person that he would provide it in a day or two. This person told Valdez that they had a friend who was going to send them cocaine from Mexico. Valdez advised that he would purchase one-quarter of a kilogram of cocaine per week at $500 per ounce and sell it for $800 per ounce. Valdez also indicated an interest in receiving marijuana. When DPS investigators interviewed Valdez in November 2011, he stated that his financial debts had become overwhelming, and he had discussed a joint venture with the first individual to smuggle 200-300 pounds of marijuana to Oklahoma or Kansas. Valdez advised that this venture never materialized but that this same individual later approached Valdez about selling cocaine and Valdez agreed. Valdez admitted that from summer 2009 to summer 2010, while he worked as a deputy in the YCSD, he distributed approximately 1.5 pounds of cocaine. Valdez stated that he stopped selling cocaine in August 2010 because he learned he was under investigation; shortly thereafter, he resigned from the YCSD. The investigation was conducted by the Texas DPS, the FBI, the Yoakum County District Attorney’s Office, and the Yoakum County Sheriff’s Office. Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeffrey Haag prosecuted.
corruption SAVANNAH, GA—John William Stanley, 46, of Pooler, Georgia, was indicted this week by a federal grand jury sitting in Savannah on charges related to a conspiracy involved in the illegal possession and distribution of numerous controlled substances. Stanley was charged with aiding and abetting that conspiracy, with assisting the conspirators in order to prevent their apprehension, and with concealing the conspirators’ crimes instead of reporting those crimes to the appropriate authorities. At the time of the charged crimes, Stanley was an officer with the city of Pooler Police Department. United States Attorney Edward Tarver stated, “Those charged with enforcing the law are not above it. This office remains committed, with our law enforcement partners, to prosecuting public corruption, so that the citizens of this district can be confident in the true loyalties of those sworn to protect and defend them.” No initial appearance in court has been scheduled. The most serious of the charges against Stanley carries a 20-year maximum prison sentence. Mr. Tarver emphasized that an indictment is only an accusation and is not evidence of guilt. The defendant is entitled to a fair trial, during which it will be the government’s burden to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. The investigation of this case was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Chatham Savannah Counter Narcotics Team, with assistance from the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency. The city of Pooler Police Department cooperated fully with the investigation. FBI Special Agent Christopher B. Blair is the lead case agent. First Assistant United States Attorney James D. Durham and Assistant United States Attorney R. Brian Tanner are prosecuting the case on behalf of the United States. Ricky Maxwell, Acting Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated, “Public corruption cases, by their very nature, are serious breaches of the public’s trust that require and receive priority investigative handling by the FBI. Those investigations involving police officers engaged in criminal conduct take on an even greater sense of urgency. The FBI will continue to make such cases a priority and asks that anyone with information regarding such activity to contact their nearest FBI field office.” Pooler Police Chief Mark Revenew stated, “The city of Pooler Police Department fully cooperated with the investigation and is committed to eradicating corruption from the law enforcement profession. We want to ensure the public that allegations such as the ones here will not be tolerated.” For additional information, please contact First Assistant United States Attorney James D. Durham at (912) 201-2547.
corruption BEAUMONT, TX—The Director of Finance and Comptroller of the Beaumont Independent School District (BISD) have been indicted on federal charges in the Eastern District of Texas, announced U.S. Attorney John M. Bales today. Devin Wayne McCraney, 35, and Sharika Baksh Allison, 43, both of Beaumont, were named in a 19-count indictment returned by a federal grand jury today charging them with conspiracy and 18 counts of fraud. According to the indictment, beginning in 2010, McCraney, director of Finance for BISD, and Allison, comptroller for BISD, are alleged to have devised schemes in which they embezzled $4,041,705.27 from BISD by means of 18 separate wire transfers to bank accounts under their personal control. “FDR famously said, ‘The school is the last expenditure upon which America should be willing to economize,’” said U.S. Attorney Bales. “And the truth is that the citizens of Beaumont have heeded that wise advice and have spent lavishly on their public schools for the sake of the city’s children. But as this indictment illustrates, there are individuals at BISD who have corruptly embezzled from that generous provision by stealing over $4 million dollars that was intended to underwrite excellent schools in Beaumont. The grand jury has alleged that Devin McCraney and Sharika Allison have been caught red-handed and if convicted, they will face justice. In the same way, federal agents and prosecutors will remain vigilant to detect, investigate, and hold accountable other so-called public servants who are abusing the public trust.” "The FBI recognizes that fighting public corruption is vital to preserving our democracy," said SAC Stephen L. Morris. "Our public officials have and always will be held to a higher standard to maintain their positions of trust. These indictments today signify a violation of the public trust given to Devin McCraney and Sharika Allison." If you have any information related to this matter, please call the Federal Bureau of Investigation at 409-832-8571. “Today’s indictment alleges that these two public officials knowingly and willfully abused their positions of trust to steal funds from the very ones they promised to serve—the children of the Beaumont Independent School District. That is completely unacceptable,” said Neil Sanchez, Special Agent in Charge of the U.S. Department of Education Office of Inspector General’s Southwest Regional Office. “OIG special agents will continue to aggressively pursue those who seek to enrich themselves at the expense of our nation’s students. America’s students, their families, and taxpayers deserve nothing less.” The defendants each face up to 10 years in federal prison. This investigation was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the U.S. Department of Education Office of Inspector General. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Christopher T. Tortorice and Joseph R. Batte. A grand jury indictment is not evidence of guilt, and all defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
corruption ATLANTA—Former Atlanta Public Schools (APS) Chief Information Officer (CIO) Jerome Oberlton has pleaded guilty to conspiring to receive kickbacks in exchange for using his influence at APS to award a $780,000 project to a computer vendor. “Mr. Oberlton abused his position as APS’ chief information officer when he took payoffs in exchange for the award of a lucrative computer contract,” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. “His fraud diverted scarce educational resources from the APS students who needed them to a vendor that was willing to pay to play.” “IRS Criminal Investigation will continue to provide its investigative resources and expertise in exposing kickback schemes like the one Mr. Oberlton helped to orchestrate,” stated Special Agent in Charge, Veronica F. Hyman-Pillot. “We stand committed to weed out individuals who ignore the public’s well-being and choose to take the path to financial success by using greed and corruption.” According to United States Attorney Yates, the indictment, and information presented in court, Oberlton had overall management responsibility for APS’ information technology program. In January 2007, APS issued a request for proposal (RFP) for a data warehousing (DW) project at the school system. The DW project was intended to centralize information relating to APS operations, including student information, so that it was maintained digitally in a secure, easily accessible manner. From the start of the project in January 2007, Oberlton and co-defendant Mahendra Patel conspired to influence the RFP process for the DW project and, ultimately, caused the winning bidder to be selected in exchange for kickbacks paid to Oberlton and Patel. While Patel did not work for APS, he had connections with a Detroit-based technology company that received the contract through the corrupted RFP process. In order to hide the bribes, Oberlton created two shell companies, Global Technology Partners (GTP), and, later, Global Technology Services (GTS), and funneled the bribe payments through these shell companies. Oberlton was able to conceal his ownership of GTP and GTS from APS even when questions arose in 2007. The kickbacks to Patel were disguised as sales commissions for non-existent consulting work that he supposedly performed for the shell companies. In reality, Patel acted as an intermediary, helping to negotiate the kickbacks between Oberlton and the Detroit-based technology company and then signed fake sales consultant agreements to hide his role. The Detroit-based technology company ultimately paid approximately $60,000 in bribes to Oberlton over almost six months, and, in return, the company received $780,000 in APS project work. Oberlton was the CIO for APS between June 2004 and August 2007, and, most recently, was the chief of staff for the Dallas Independent School District before he resigned in May 2013, shortly after he was indicted. Oberlton, 48, of Atlanta, Georgia, pleaded guilty to conspiring with Patel and others to accept bribes, which carries a maximum term of imprisonment of five years and a fine of $250,000. The parties have recommended to the court that Oberlton receive a sentence of 41 months’ imprisonment, pay $735,130 in restitution, and perform 1,000 hours of community service. In determining the actual sentence, the court will consider the United States Sentencing Guidelines, which are not binding but provide appropriate sentencing ranges for most offenders. Sentencing is scheduled for March 24, 2014. Mahendra Patel, 45, of Kennesaw, Georgia, pleaded guilty on August 16, 2013, to conspiring with Oberlton to accept bribes. These cases are being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Internal Revenue Service. Assistant United States Attorneys Kurt R. Erskine and Jill E. Steinberg are prosecuting the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Presse-mails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia is www.justice.gov/usao/gan.
corruption WASHINGTON—A former mayor of South Pittsburg, Tennessee and an associate were sentenced today in Chattanooga, Tennessee, for managing an illegal gambling business, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and Special Agent in Charge Kenneth L. Moore of the FBI’s Knoxville Division. Former South Pittsburg Mayor James Michael Killian, 56, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Curtis L. Collier in the Eastern District of Tennessee to serve six months in prison, followed by 12 months of home confinement. In addition to his prison term, Killian was sentenced to serve two years of supervised release and ordered to pay a fine of $30,000. His associate in the gambling operation, Robert Barry Cole, 53, of South Pittsburg, was sentenced to serve three months in prison, followed by six months of home confinement. He will serve two years of supervised release and was ordered to pay a $3,000 fine. Killian was mayor of South Pittsburg from 2005 until 2012. During that time, he conducted a gambling operation that involved video gambling machines located at a convenience store he owned in South Pittsburg. Killian also managed an illegal lottery in which bettors placed illegal bets on legal state lotteries. In addition, Killian ran an illegal sports betting ring in partnership with Cole. Cole received sports bets, collected wagers, and paid successful bettors their winnings, and Killian and Cole split the proceeds of the operation. This case was investigated by the FBI and prosecuted by Trial Attorney Mark Angehr of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section.
corruption The former Ottawa County sheriff was charged with improperly spending about $5,000 that was to be used for law enforcement purposes to instead pay for personal items, including Cedar Point tickets, clothing, and prescription medicine, said Steven M. Dettelbach, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio, and Stephen D. Anthony, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI’s Cleveland Office. Robert Bratton, 60, of Genoa, Ohio, was charged in a criminal information with one count of theft concerning programs receiving federal funds. “Money that was supposed to help the men and women in law enforcement was instead diverted and spent on personal items, including tickets to an amusement park,” Dettelbach said. “That is hardly amusing to the rest of us. Those who are trusted to enforce the law, above all, cannot place themselves above it.” Anthony said, “A sheriff who chooses to ignore his sworn oath to uphold the law and engage in criminal behavior is totally unacceptable. The FBI will investigate those who violate the public’s trust, no matter what position that individual holds.” Bratton served as Ottawa County sheriff from 2004 until his resignation in September 2011. In 2010, the sheriff’s office received approximately $27,290 from the Furtherance of Justice Fund (FOJ Fund), which provided law enforcement entities to pay for expenses relating to official law enforcement duties and in the furtherance of justice, according to the information. The Ohio Auditor provided guidance to county sheriffs in 2007 under the heading “Permissable Expenditures of FOJ Funds.” It read, in part, that an “expenditure must be both in the performance of the officer’s official duties and in furtherance of justice to be allowable.” The bulletin also stated, “There is always the additional requirement that the expenditure must be for a proper public purpose,” according to the information. Bratton, as the county sheriff, was a fiduciary over FOJ Fund money provided to his office. In 2010, Bratton used approximately $2,865 in FOJ Fund cash and also used a credit card linked to the FOJ Fund to purchase various personal items, including Cedar Point tickets, prescription medicine, and clothing, all of which were non-permitted expenses under FOJ Fund rules and regulations, according to the information. As of December 31, 2010, Bratton reimbursed the FOJ Fund for some of the money he used for personal items but failed to replace all the FOJ Fund money by that date, according to the information. An information is only a charge and is not evidence of guilt. A defendant is entitled to a fair trial in which it will be the government’s burden to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. If convicted, the defendant’s sentence will be determined by the court after review of factors unique to this case, including the defendant’s prior criminal record, if any, the defendant’s role in the offense and the characteristics of the violation. In all cases, the sentence will not exceed the statutory maximum and in most cases it will be less than the maximum. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Gene Crawford and Antoinette T. Bacon and following investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
corruption BATON ROUGE, LA—United States Attorney Walt Green announced that Earl L. Theriot, age 65, of Sorrento, Louisiana, pled guilty today before Chief U.S. District Judge Brian A. Jackson to making false statements to an FBI special agent in connection with a criminal civil rights investigation. Theriot faces up to five years in prison, three years of supervised release following imprisonment, and a fine of up to $250,000. At today’s hearing, Theriot admitted that on November 1, 2013, while serving as the chief of police for the town of Sorrento and following a 911 emergency police dispatch, he contacted an unresponsive individual at a local gas station, placed her in the front seat of his police unit, and, instead of bringing her back to her residence, transported her to his office at the Sorrento Police Department, where he engaged in inappropriate sexual contact with her. Theriot also admitted to later making numerous false statements to an FBI special agent and a deputy with the Ascension Parish Sheriff’s Office who were investigating whether Theriot violated federal civil rights laws, among other things. On February 7, 2014, Theriot resigned as chief of police as required by the plea agreement with the United States Attorney’s Office. United States Attorney Green stated, “This office, along with our federal, state, and local partners, are dedicated to conducting thorough and complete investigations into credible allegations of police corruption and civil rights violations. Those who seek to obstruct such efforts by making false statements to federal investigators will face severe consequences. My special appreciation to Sheriff Jeff Wiley of the Ascension Parish Sheriff’s Office, District Attorney Ricky Babin of the 23rd Judicial District, and the FBI who worked seamlessly with my office to ensure justice was done.” This prosecution and investigation were conducted jointly by the United States Attorney’s Office, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Ascension Parish Sheriff’s Office, and the District Attorney’s Office for the 23rd Judicial District. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Chris Dippel.
corruption BALTIMORE—U.S. District Judge Ellen L. Hollander sentenced correctional officer Adrena Rice, age 25, of Baltimore, today to 42 months in prison, followed by two years of supervised release, for racketeering conspiracy arising from the smuggling of drugs for members of the Black Guerilla Family (BGF) gang inside the Baltimore City Detention Center (BCDC). The sentence was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Acting Secretary Gregg Hershberger of the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services; Baltimore Police Commissioner Anthony W. Batts; and Baltimore City State’s Attorney Gregg L. Bernstein. According to court documents, BGF has been the dominant gang at the BCDC, and in several connected facilities, including the Baltimore Central Booking Intake Center, the Women’s Detention Center (which houses many men), and in the Jail Industries Building. According to her plea, Adrena Rice worked as a correctional officer at BCDC. Rice frequently smuggled contraband, including marijuana and prescription pills, into BCDC on behalf of BGF leader and inmate, Tavon White. Rice also helped other correctional officers, such as Jennifer Owens and Katera Stevenson, smuggle drugs into BCDC. Eight other correctional officers have pleaded guilty to the racketeering enterprise and await sentencing: Kimberly Dennis, age 26, of Baltimore Jasmin Jones, a/k/a/ J.J., age 24, of Baltimore Taryn Kirkland, age 23, of Baltimore Katrina Laprade, a/k/a Katrina Lyons, age 31 Vivian Matthews, age 26, of Essex, Maryland Jennifer Owens, a/k/a/ O and J.O., age 31, of Randallstown Katera Stevenson, a/k/a KK, age 24, of Baltimore Jasmine Thornton, a/k/a J.T., age 26, of Glen Burnie Seven other co-defendants have also pleaded guilty: inmates Tavon White, age 36; Steven Loney, age 24; Jermaine McFadden, a/k/a Maine, age 25; and Kenneth Parham, age 24; and outside contraband suppliers Tyrone Thompson, a/k/a Henry, age 36; Tyesha Mayo, age 30; and Teshawn Pinder, age 24. Loney is scheduled to be sentenced on January 14, 2014. Outside supplier James Yarborough, a/k/a J.Y., age 27, of Baltimore, is scheduled to have a rearraignment on January 15, 2014, at 10:00 a.m. The case arose from the efforts of the Maryland Prison Task Force, a group of local, state, and federal law enforcement agencies and prosecutors that met regularly for more than two years and generated recommendations to reform prison procedures. The investigation is continuing. U.S. Attorney Rosenstein recognized the efforts of the other members of the Maryland Prison Task Force, including Colonel Marcus L. Brown, Superintendent of the Maryland State Police; Chief Mark A. Magaw of the Prince George’s County Police Department; United States Marshal Johnny Hughes; Special Agent in Charge Karl C. Colder of the Drug Enforcement Administration-Washington Field Division; Tom Carr, Director of the Washington-Baltimore High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area; and Dave Engel, Executive Director of the Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI, Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services, Baltimore Police Department, and Maryland Prison Task Force, for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant United States Attorneys Robert R. Harding and Ayn B. Ducao, who are prosecuting this Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force case.
corruption This afternoon, former El Paso political consultant Antonio Dill was sentenced to 10 months in federal prison, followed by two years of supervised release, for his role in a “pay-to-play” scheme uncovered during the ongoing public corruption investigation in El Paso, announced United States Attorney Robert Pitman and FBI Special Agent in Charge Douglas E. Lindquist. United States District Judge Frank Montalvo also ordered that the 44–year-old Dill pay a $25,000 fine. Furthermore, Judge Montalvo ordered that Dill surrender to federal authorities on or before February 4, 2014, to begin serving his prison term. Dill, who pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit mail fraud and deprivation of honest services, admitted that in 2007, he served as a “middle man” in a bribery scheme involving former El Paso County Judge Anthony Cobos. According to court records, Dill received a $1,500 cash bribe that he forwarded to Cobos for his vote and influence in refinancing approximately $40 million of El Paso County debt and to terminate the then El Paso County financial advisor’s contract to be replaced with another company. This FBI investigation has resulted in 39 federal convictions—36 individuals who entered guilty pleas and three individuals who were convicted by juries. Assistant United States Attorney Debra Kanof prosecuted this case on behalf of the Government.
corruption ST. THOMAS—District Court Judge Curtis V. Gomez today sentenced Alvin L. Williams, Jr., former senator for the Legislature of the Virgin Islands, to 52 months in federal prison for racketeering, announced United States Attorney Ronald W. Sharpe, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Special Agent in Charge Carlos Cases, United States Marshal Cheryl Jacobs, Virgin Islands Office of the Inspector General Steven van Beverhoudt, Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation Division (IRS-CID) Special Agent in Charge Daniel W. Auer, U.S. Department of Education Office of Inspector General Special Agent in Charge Yessyka Santana, Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) Special Agent in Charge Eric Barnard, and Virgin Islands Police Department (VIPD) Commissioner Rodney Querrard. Williams, 34, was remanded to the custody of the United States Marshals Service to begin serving his sentence at the conclusion of today’s hearing. In addition to the prison sentence, Judge Gomez ordered Williams to serve three years of supervised release upon completion of his prison sentence, pay restitution in an amount to be determined, and perform 300 hours of community service. On January 17, 2013, Williams pleaded guilty to operating and participating in a criminal enterprise whose members and associates engaged in illegal activities, including: bribing a Virgin Islands public official, soliciting and receiving bribes from numerous St. Thomas construction project developers, fraudulently soliciting and increasing staff members’ salaries and using the increase of funds for his personal use, and having staff members fraudulently do his University of Phoenix online course for him during legislative work hours. In the same hearing, Judge Gomez sentenced co-defendants Kim A. Blackett, 30, and Garry Sprauve, 64, two Virgin Islands legislative staff members who worked with Williams. Sprauve was sentenced to serve one year in prison and three years of probation and ordered to pay restitution in an amount to be determined and perform 300 hours of community service. Sprauve previously pleaded guilty to helping Williams bribe construction developers and also participated with Williams in the fraudulent increase of Sprauve’s legislative salary in order for the increase to be used by Williams. Blackett was placed on probation, ordered to pay restitution in an amount to be determined, and ordered to perform 300 hours of community service. Blackett previously pleaded guilty to fraudulently completing Williams’ online University of Phoenix course work during legislative work hours. “Public service is a public trust. Those who violate this trust for personal gain will not escape justice,” U.S. Attorney Sharpe said. “Today’s sentences should be a reminder to all public officials of the possible consequences when they seek to use their office for their own personal gain.” The case was investigated by the Federal Public Corruption Task Force, which is composed of the FBI, United States Marshals Service, IRS-CI, U.S. Department of Education Inspector General, DEA, Virgin Islands Office of the Inspector General, and the VIPD. It was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Kim R. Lindquist and Kelly B. Lake.
corruption TRENTON, NJ—A New Jersey insurance broker and the former mayor of Toms River, New Jersey, were each sentenced today for offenses arising from separate schemes involving officials of Toms River and the former insurance broker for the Toms River Regional School District Francis X. Gartland, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Frank Cotroneo, 63, of Chester, New Jersey, an insurance broker with an office in Morristown, New Jersey, was sentenced to 37 months in prison and ordered to pay more than $12.4 million in restitution to the Toms River School District and in forfeiture to the United States. Cotroneo previously pleaded guilty before former Chief U.S. District Judge Garrett E. Brown, Jr. to one count each of bribery and tax evasion arising from his participation in a scheme to pay hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes to Michael J. Ritacco, 67, of Seaside Park, New Jersey, the former superintendent for the Toms River Regional School District, in exchange for his official assistance. Carmine C. Inteso, Jr., 47, of Toms River, was sentenced today to six months in prison and six months of house arrest for evading his income tax obligations. Inteso, who was arrested in July 2012 after returning from Afghanistan where he had been working as a contractor, pleaded guilty in December 2012 before U.S. District Judge Joel A. Pisano to one count of tax evasion. From 2002 through 2007, Inteso held the positions of Township Committee member, mayor, deputy mayor, and councilman for the Township of Toms River, formerly known as Dover Township. Inteso allegedly took a job in Afghanistan after learning he was the target of the tax investigation and, after returning to the United States, was taken into custody at New York’s John F. Kennedy International airport. Judge Pisano imposed the sentences today in Trenton federal court. According to documents filed and statements made in court: Cotroneo admitted that from 2002 to April 2009, he and co-conspirators Gartland and Frank D’Alonzo, a former administrator at the Toms River Regional School District, paid bribes and other benefits to Michael J. Ritacco, who was then the superintendent of the district. The payments were made to allow Cotroneo and Gartland, 72, of Baltimore, Maryland—insurance co-brokers for the school district—to obtain and keep the lucrative insurance brokerage contracts with the district. To facilitate the scheme, Ritacco, Gartland, and Cotroneo agreed to have Ritacco approve a workers’ compensation insurance contract between Gartland and the school district, which yielded between $500,000 and $600,000 annually in excess fees. Those proceeds were to be used to make hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes to Ritacco. Cotroneo also admitted that for tax years 2005 to 2007, he evaded the assessment of hundreds of thousands of dollars of federal income taxes by concealing the illegal proceeds he received from Gartland and others during the course of the bribery scheme. Ritacco and Gartland were ordered previously to pay $4,336, 987.91 in restitution to the school district. Judge Pisano today ordered Cotroneo to pay $3,275,677.65 in restitution, which represented the loss to the school district while he was an active participant in the scheme. In addition to ordering restitution, the court ordered that Cotroneo forfeit to the United States a sum of $9,126,200.16, which represented the proceeds derived from the scheme. D’Alonzo was ordered to pay $1,625,952.79 in restitution and also ordered to forfeit a sum of approximately $4.3 million. Gartland was previously ordered to forfeit $11 million, which represented the total proceeds derived from the fraudulent scheme. Prior to his sentencing on September 14, 2012, Ritacco forfeited to the United States $1 million, a 2010 Mercedes Benz, and $8,950 in cash. In addition to the prison term and payments, Judge Pisano sentenced Cotroneo to serve three years of supervised release. In a separate and unrelated scheme beginning in 2005 and continuing through 2008, Inteso accepted hundreds of thousands of dollars in payments from Gartland, an insurance broker whose companies provided insurance brokerage services for New Jersey municipal entities including the Brick Township Board of Education and the Township of Toms River. Inteso directed Gartland to make the payments to a company Inteso controlled and that had ceased operating by 2007. Gartland pleaded guilty to charges of mail fraud, conspiracy to defraud the IRS, and perjury and was sentenced to 135 months in prison. Inteso used the funds to pay for his personal expenses and withdrew significant amounts of cash. Despite receiving approximately $291,000 in income from the insurance broker during calendar years 2006, 2007 and 2008, Inteso failed to file personal income taxes for those years. In addition to the prison term, Judge Pisano sentenced Inteso to serve two years of supervised release. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford; and IRS-Criminal Investigation, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Shantelle P. Kitchen. The Office of International Affairs in the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and the Diplomatic Security Service’s Regional Security Office in Kabul, Afghanistan, provided invaluable assistance in the Inteso case. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Lee M. Cortes, Jr. of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division in Newark.
corruption This afternoon, former El Paso County Judge Anthony Cobos and Lorenzo Hilario Aguilar were each sentenced to four years in federal prison, followed by three years of supervised release, for their roles in a “pay-to-play” scheme uncovered during the ongoing public corruption investigation in El Paso, announced United States Attorney Robert Pitman and FBI Special Agent in Charge Douglas E. Lindquist. United States District Judge Frank Montalvo also ordered that the 46–year-old Cobos pay a $10,000 fine; the 63-year-old Aguilar, a $50,000 fine. Furthermore, Judge Montalvo ordered Cobos and Aguilar to surrender to federal authorities on or before February 11, 2014, to begin serving their prison terms. In September, Cobos and Aguilar each pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit mail fraud and deprivation of honest services. By pleading guilty, the defendants admitted that in 2007, they participated in a bribery scheme involving former El Paso County Judge Anthony Cobos’ vote and influence on El Paso County contracts. According to court records, Cobos accepted bribes in the form of cash money and other benefits, including campaign contributions to Cobos-supported individuals running for the El Paso City Council in exchange for his vote and influence in refinancing approximately $40 million of El Paso County debt and to terminate the then-El Paso County financial adviser’s contract and replace with another company. “The sentences handed down today should reassure the public that we will be relentless in pursuing those who would attempt to corrupt public officials as well as those public officials who violate their public trust for personal gain,” stated U.S. Attorney Robert Pitman. This FBI investigation has resulted in 39 federal convictions—36 individuals who entered guilty pleas and three individuals who were convicted by juries. “Nothing destroys public confidence more than those who illegally conspire to benefit from taxpayer dollars. The FBI is committed to protecting the El Paso community by holding violators personally accountable for their actions,” stated FBI SAC Douglas E. Lindquist. Assistant United States Attorney William F. Lewis, Jr. prosecuted this case on behalf of the government.
corruption JACKSON, MS—Robert Nikita Shegog, of Terry, Mississippi, was sentenced in U.S. District Court today to 22 months and 15 days imprisonment for bribery, announced U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis and FBI Special Agent in Charge Daniel McMullen. Shegog was also ordered to pay a $10,000 fine. Shegog pled guilty to the bribery charge in July 2012, admitting that, while employed as a Narcotics Detective with the Jackson Police Department in 2010, he advised a Hinds County criminal defendant that he would assist him in getting a sentence reduction on an outstanding drug charge if he would pay Shegog $45,000.00. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Jerry Rushing.
corruption A veteran U.S. Customs and Border Protection officer was convicted by a federal jury today of allowing tons of marijuana and loads of people to be smuggled through his inspection lanes. After a two-week trial before U.S. District Judge Marilyn Huff, the jury deliberated for five days and found 50-year-old Lorne “Hammer” Jones guilty of conspiracy to engage in bribery, drug smuggling, and alien smuggling and attempted importation of marijuana. Sentencing was set for March 24, 2014 at 9 a.m. According to testimony at trial, Jones was on the take for a decade beginning in 2000, first waving cars and vanloads of aliens and drugs through his lane at the San Ysidro port of entry, and eventually graduating to tractor-trailers jammed with marijuana at the commercial port at Otay Mesa. “Lorne Jones allowed greed to destroy everything his badge represents,” said U.S. Attorney Laura Duffy. “This verdict ensures that he will held accountable with his actions.” “Today’s conviction is important to all of the other hardworking CBP employees and officers who perform their duties with honor and distinction, working tirelessly every day to keep our country safe,” said Pete Flores, CBP Director of Field Operations in San Diego. “We do not tolerate corruption within our ranks; the actions uncovered during this investigation tarnish the badge he was privileged to wear.” FBI Special Agent in Charge (SAC) Daphne Hearn commented, “When a law enforcement official violates his oath to protect and serve the citizens of this nation, it undermines the public’s trust. When that happens, the FBI and our law enforcement partners at the Border Corruption Task Force are determined to restore the public’s confidence and trust by rooting out corruption at all levels of government.” The public can report alleged instances of corruption to the FBI hotline at 858-320-1800. “I am pleased by today’s verdict,” said Dennis M. McGunagle, Special Agent in Charge of Department of Homeland Security, Office of Inspector General. “The DHS OIG is committed to working with our law enforcement partners to identify and aggressively investigate allegations of corruption to protect our borders and the integrity of DHS personnel, programs, and operations.” Jones, an inspector since 1994, worked at both the San Ysidro and Otay Mesa border crossings and had been a canine officer since the 1990s. He was indicted by a federal grand jury and arrested at work in 2010, charged with conspiracy to commit bribery and smuggle drugs and immigrants, as well as bribery and attempted marijuana importation. Jones was acquitted of bribery. A dozen witnesses testified that Jones was on the take, including Michael Taylor, a former colleague and friend of Jones’ who was also corrupt; Jones’ ex-wife, who recruited him to be a smuggler; a friend and financial adviser who testified that the two had discussed ways to hide ill-gotten gains and that he had personally used Jones to help smuggle his girlfriend across the border twice; the smuggled girlfriend; and some of Jones’ co-conspirators. And, prosecutors presented evidence from a database that tracks information about people crossing the border—such as license plate numbers, names of those who were inspected and when, and by whom. During trial, prosecutors said the data proved that Jones was allowing known load vehicles and drivers for drug trafficking organizations to pass though his lanes for years, without being inspected. According to testimony, Jones volunteered to work overtime shifts as a primary inspector so he could wave through vans jammed with aliens and drugs, and trucks full of marijuana. But things did not go smoothly on two occasions. According to trial testimony, Jones had a beeper code system to tell smugglers which one of the 24 inspection lanes Jones was working when they approached the border crossing. But the system failed in 2002 when Jones was randomly and unexpectedly reassigned to another position, and a load driver was forced to abandon his van full of drugs in the inspection line. In the second failure a few months later, a van stuffed to the ceiling with four tons of marijuana was detected by a roving officer and his dog. The van was in Jones’ lane, just car lengths away from Jones’ booth as he furiously waved other drivers through the lane. The driver and passenger ran from the van, and all the inspectors hurried to help—except Jones. “Where was Hammer?” prosecutor W. Mark Conover said during his closing argument. “Sitting in his booth, paralyzed with fear. His load was caught.” That narcotics seizure remains the largest ever at San Ysidro. One of the government’s key witnesses was Taylor, the former inspector and friend of Jones who had been indicted in 2004, convicted of corruption-related charges and had served 48 months in prison. He has since graduated from Columbia University with honors and is now an archeologist with no legal incentive to lie, prosecutors told the jury. Taylor testified that he and Jones were both smuggling aliens and drugs in the early 2000s. According to trial testimony, security was tightened at the ports of entry around 2007, making it more difficult for Jones to singlehandedly allow loads of drugs and people through. That meant more losses of large loads of marijuana. Criminal Case No. 10cr4141 Defendant Lorne Leslie Jones aka “Hammer” Age: 50 Chula Vista, CA Summary of Charges Conspiracy to Commit Crimes Against the United States in violation of 18 U.S.C. 371 Attempted Importation of Marijuana in violation of 21 U.S.C. 841 Investigating Agencies Federal Bureau of Investigation, Border Corruption Task Force Department of Homeland Security, Office of Inspector General Customs and Border Protection, Office of Field Operations
corruption WASHINGTON—The former Ohio deputy treasurer pleaded guilty today for his role in leading a bribery and money laundering scheme involving the Ohio Treasurer’s Office. Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, First Assistant U.S. Attorney Mark T. D’Alessandro of the Southern District of Ohio, and Special Agent in Charge Kevin R. Cornelius of the FBI’s Cincinnati Division made the announcement. Amer Ahmad, 38, of Chicago, appeared before U.S. District Judge Michael H. Watson of the Southern District of Ohio and pleaded guilty to conspiracy, which carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison, and federal program bribery, which carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison. Sentencing will be scheduled at a later date. According to court documents, from approximately January 2009 through January 2011, Ahmad and others conspired to use Ahmad’s role as deputy treasurer to direct official state of Ohio broker services business to Douglas E. Hampton, 39, a securities broker from Canton, Ohio, in return for payments from Hampton. Ahmad and Joseph M. Chiavaroli, 33, of Chicago, concealed those payments from Hampton by passing them through the accounts of a landscaping business in which Ahmad and Chiavaroli held ownership interests. Hampton also funneled in excess of $123,000 to Mohammed Noure Alo, 35, of Columbus, Ohio, an attorney and lobbyist who was Ahmad’s close personal friend and business associate. As a result of the scheme, Hampton received approximately $3.2 million in commissions for 360 trades on behalf of the Ohio Treasurer’s Office. Ahmad and his co-conspirators received in excess of $500,000 from Hampton. Hampton and Chiavaroli entered guilty pleas in August 2013, and Alo pleaded guilty on December 20, 2013. The case was investigated by the FBI’s Central Ohio Public Corruption Task Force, which includes special agents from the FBI and the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Douglas W. Squires of the Southern District of Ohio and Trial Attorney Eric L. Gibson of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section.
corruption RALEIGH—United States Attorney Thomas G. Walker announced today Rashonda Cross, 27, a former correctional officer at the Rivers Correctional Institution in Winton, North Carolina, was sentenced by United States District Judge Louise W. Flanagan for one count of conspiracy to commit bribery, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371, to three years’ probation, 45 days' intermittent confinement, and a $100 special assessment. Investigation revealed that Cross, while employed as a correctional officer at the Rivers Correctional Institution, accepted payments from inmates within the facility in return for smuggling in contraband items such as cell phones and cigarettes. It further showed that some inmates paid bribes to correctional officers to gain their cooperation in the scheme. Four others have been previously convicted and sentenced for their conduct in the scheme: former Rivers Correctional Officer Rhonda Boyd was sentenced in July 2013 to 20 months’ imprisonment; former Rivers Correctional Officer Raye Lynn Holley was sentenced in October 2013 to 20 months’ imprisonment; former Rivers’ inmate Roland Bazemore was sentenced in April 2013 to 30 months’ imprisonment; and former Rivers’ inmate Kenneth Dodd was sentenced in October 2013 to 37 months’ imprisonment. Investigation of this case was conducted by the Department of Justice, Office of Inspector General and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, with assistance provided by the United States Postal Inspection Service.
corruption In El Paso today, former Socorro Independent School District (ISD) Trustee Guillermo “Willie” Gandara, Sr. was sentenced to 42 months in federal prison, followed by three years of supervised release, for using his influence with the school board to secure and retain lucrative health services contracts for ACCESS Health Source, announced United States Attorney Robert Pitman and FBI Special Agent in Charge Douglas E. Lindquist. United States District Judge Frank Montalvo also ordered that Gandara pay a $25,000, fine as well as $5,575.67 restitution to Socorro ISD. Furthermore, Judge Montalvo ordered that Gandara self–surrender to a U.S. Bureau of Prisons designated facility on or before February 4, 2014, to begin serving his prison term. “The sentence handed down today should reassure the public that we will be relentless in pursuing those public officials who violate their public trust for personal gain,” stated U.S. Attorney Robert Pitman. ACCESS, among other things, was a third-party administrator of health care benefits for self-insured entities. Between 1998 and 2007, ACCESS contracted with self-insured local (El Paso) government entities, including Socorro ISD, to provide administrative services for health insurance programs provided by their employer. On July 22, 2013, Gandara pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit mail fraud. By pleading guilty, Gandara admitted that from 1998 until July 2007, he schemed to defraud the school district and deny the citizens of El Paso the right to honest services by their elected officials. Furthermore, Gandara admitted he knowingly aided and abetted former ACCESS CEO and President Frank Apodaca and others by performing acts in his official capacity that benefited ACCESS. “Today’s sentencing of former SISD Trustee Guillermo Gandara, Sr. marks the final sentencing of 11 individuals who were entrusted to serve the citizens of Socorro and El Paso but instead used their positions and influence to promote their own personal interests. This sentencing is yet another reminder of the FBI’s continued commitment to pursue individuals who have violated the public’s confidence and hold them accountable, irrespective of status,” stated FBI Special Agent In Charge Douglas E. Lindquist. This FBI investigation has resulted in 39 federal convictions—36 individuals who entered guilty pleas and three individuals who were convicted by juries. Assistant United States Attorneys Debra Kanof and Jose Luis Gonzalez are prosecuting this case on behalf of the government.
corruption Sandra Campbell, 60, a former Detroit Public Schools contract accountant and School Board candidate, was sentenced to nearly six years in federal prison today by United States District Judge Julian Abele Cook on charges of program fraud conspiracy, money laundering conspiracy, and tax charges, following a five-week jury trial that took place in August, United States Attorney Barbara L. McQuade announced today. McQuade was joined in the announcement by Special Agent in Charge Paul M. Abbate, Federal Bureau of Investigation; Special Agent in Charge, Erick Martinez, Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation; and Detroit Public Schools Emergency Manager Jack Martin. Sandra Campbell was sentenced to 70 months in federal prison on charges of program fraud against the Detroit Public Schools, money laundering, and criminal tax fraud. In addition, Campbell was ordered to pay restitution to the Detroit Public Schools in the amount of $530,091. Co-defendant Domonique Campbell, daughter of Sandra Campbell, is set to be sentenced on January 7, 2014, at 11 a.m. The evidence presented at trial established that between 2004 and 2008, Sandra Campbell and Domonique Campbell obtained in excess of $530,000 from the Detroit Public Schools through a fraudulent scheme in which orders were placed with the Campbells’ sham company for books and educational materials never provided to the schools. Sandra Campbell and Domonique Campbell conspired to launder the fraud proceeds and to defraud the Internal Revenue Service and failed to report the money they fraudulently obtained from the Detroit Public Schools as income on their tax returns. United States Attorney Barbara L. McQuade said, "Anyone who considers defrauding our schools should take note that we are scrutinizing records and conduct, and we will prosecute those who steal funds intended to educate our children." DPS Emergency Manager Martin stated, “This sentence sends a powerful message that fraudulently converting DPS resources for personal gain and thereby depriving students of the tools they need to prepare for educational and employment opportunities will not be tolerated. If you steal DPS resources, you will get caught, and you will be prosecuted." FBI Special Agent in Charge Paul M. Abbate stated, “In this case, the defendant’s criminal actions amounted to stealing the opportunity for a quality education from our children. Such conduct cannot, and will not, be tolerated. The FBI Detroit Field Office, together with our local, state, and federal partners, will continue to battle public corruption and hold those responsible accountable for their actions." IRS Special Agent in Charge Erick Martinez stated, “Those who profit at the expense of our children and steal from our community will be held accountable for their greedy actions." The case was investigated by special agents of the FBI, IRS, and Department of Education-Office of Inspector General, with the assistance of Detroit Public Schools-Office of Inspector General. The case was investigated and prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys J. Michael Buckley and Bruce Judge of the Public Corruption Unit.
corruption ATLANTA—Jae Jun Bae has been indicted by a federal grand jury for wire fraud and bribery. “The defendant is charged with offering bribes to subvert the proper operation of Doraville’s government,” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. “As is usually the case, the government employees reported Bae’s misdeeds—allowing law enforcement officers to thwart his efforts to offer cash for favors.” Ricky Maxwell, Acting Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated, “Public corruption matters at all levels continue to be an investigative priority for the FBI because of the harm that it causes both with government operations and public trust. We ask the public to remain vigilant regarding criminal activities not only by public or elected officials, but also by those engaging the government, and ask that they report those activities to their nearest FBI field office.” "Doraville is thankful to be able to work in partnership with the FBI,” said Doraville Police Chief John King. “Public corruption erodes the confidence and trust that our citizens have in our government officials and employees. Doraville police officers work tirelessly with the citizens and our partnering law enforcement agencies to make sure that our city is free of corruption and filled with trust." According to United States Attorney Yates, the charges, and other information presented in court, Bae is the owner of Moon Lingerie, a lingerie business located in Doraville, Georgia. In April 2012, Bae bought a commercial building located on Buford Highway in Doraville. At the time of the purchase, the property was zoned for retail use and could not be used as a wholesale location as Bae wanted. In August 2012, Bae met with an employee of the city of Doraville and attempted to give the employee an envelope of cash, ostensibly in an effort to have the Buford Highway property re-zoned. The employee did not take the envelope and reported Bae’s attempt to local law enforcement authorities. In October 2013, Bae asked to meet with an employee of Doraville’s Community Development Department. Based on the allegations from August 2012, the employee (Doraville employee) reported Bae’s request for a meeting to law enforcement authorities and agreed to cooperate with them. Thereafter, the FBI, and the Doraville Police Department conducted a series of undercover operations involving Bae. In particular, on October 17, 2013, Bae met with the Doraville employee and an undercover officer (UC) who was posing member of Doraville’s Community Development Department. During the meeting, Bae agreed to pay approximately $100,000 to have the Buford Highway property re-zoned to permit wholesale uses. On October 18, 2013, Bae met with the UC and re-negotiated the price to obtain a wholesale re-zoning from $100,000 down to $70,000. On October 29, 2013, Bae made a $5,000 payment to the Doraville Employee as a deposit to get the Buford Highway property re-zoned. On the next day, Bae gave the UC a $3,000 payment, which the UC said would secure a vote in favor of Bae’s re-zoning application. On November 14, 2013, the FBI arrested Bae. On December 3, 2013, Bae, 34, of Duluth, Georgia, was indicted by a federal grand jury on five counts of wire fraud and one count of bribery. The most serious of the charges (wire fraud) carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000 on each count. In determining the actual sentence, the court will consider the United States Sentencing Guidelines, which are not binding but provide appropriate sentencing ranges for most offenders. Members of the public are reminded that the indictment only contains charges. The defendant is presumed innocent of the charges, and it will be the government’s burden to prove the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt at trial. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Doraville Police Department. Assistant United States Attorney Jeffrey W. Davis and Special Assistant United States Attorney Erin Sanders are prosecuting the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Pressemails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Atlanta Division is http://www.justice.gov/usao/gan/.
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, and George Venizelos, Assistant Director in Charge of the New York Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, announced that former East Haven Police officer Jason Zullo, 35, was sentenced today by United States District Judge Alvin W. Thompson in Hartford to 24 months of imprisonment, followed by one year of supervised release. Zullo also was ordered to perform 50 hours of community service. According to court documents and statements made in court, this matter stems from a criminal investigation into members of the East Haven Police Department's use of excessive force during arrests, unconstitutional searches and seizures, and the filing of false police reports. As a result of the investigation, Zullo, Sergeant John Miller, and Officers Dennis Spaulding and David Cari were charged with various civil rights offenses. On October 23, 2012, Zullo pleaded guilty to one count of obstruction of justice and admitted that on October 18, 2008, he struck a motorcycle with his police car at least three times during a chase, ultimately causing the motorcycle to crash and throwing the male driver and female passenger to the ground. Both victims suffered injuries. Following the incident, in order to obstruct any potential investigation of his use of excessive force, Zullo prepared and filed a false police report that omitted the fact that he struck the motorcycle during the chase. “This defendant attempted to cover up his misconduct and obstruct a civil rights investigation by filing a false police report,” said U.S. Attorney Daly. “His report failed to disclose that he had injured two civilians when he used his patrol car to repeatedly strike the motorcycle they were riding. The evidence obtained during this long-term investigation also revealed other examples of this officer’s abuse of his police powers. This prosecution and the resulting significant prison term demonstrate that criminal conduct by law enforcement officers will not be tolerated.” “Maintaining the public’s trust in elected officials and particularly law enforcement is of the utmost importance,” said FBI Assistant Director in Charge Venizelos. “It is our hope that today’s developments bring us closer to renewing confidence and respect for those, particularly in East Haven, who enforce the law.” On September 21, 2012, Miller pleaded guilty to one count of violating an individual’s civil rights by using unreasonable and excessive force during the course of an arrest. On October 21, 2013, after a month-long trial, Spaulding and Cari were found guilty of conspiracy and various other charges related to their violating the civil rights of members of the East Haven community. Miller, Cari, and Spaulding await sentencing. This matter has been investigated by the Civil Rights Squad of the FBI’s New York Field Office. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Krishna R. Patel and Senior Litigation Counsel Richard J. Schechter. Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, announced that Arcolain Fountain, 47, of Hamden, was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge Alvin W. Thompson in Hartford to three years of probation for attempting to smuggle oxycodone into the prison where he was employed. Fountain was also ordered to perform 300 hours of community service. According to court documents and statements made in court, Fountain was a correction officer at Cheshire Correctional Institution in Cheshire. On July 17, 2012, Fountain met with an undercover officer with the Statewide Narcotics Task Force at a commuter lot off Interstate 84 in Southington to accept what he believed were 90 oxycodone pills. Fountain was planning to smuggle the oxycodone pills into the Cheshire Correctional Institute and deliver them to an inmate housed there. During the meeting with the undercover officer, Fountain also accepted $450 in cash and a quantity of Ecstasy pills as payment for delivering the oxycodone to the inmate. Fountain was arrested at that time. On December 18, 2012, Fountain waived his right to indictment and pleaded guilty to one count of attempting to possess with the intent to distribute a controlled substance. This matter was investigated by the Statewide Narcotics Task Force, the Connecticut Department of Correction, and the Cheshire Police Department, with the assistance of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The case was prosecuted by Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael W. Ahearn.
corruption ATLANTA—Former Clarkston City Councilwoman Joan Swaney has pleaded guilty to embezzling more than $60,000 from a local community center. “As a Clarkston councilwoman, Swaney’s personal motto was ‘live with purpose, act with integrity,’” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. “Unfortunately, she failed to live up to these ideals when she stole tens of thousands of dollars from the Clarkston Community Center.” According to United States Attorney Yates, the charges, and other information presented in court: the Clarkston Community Center (CCC) was established in 1994 in the former Clarkston High School and serves a diverse community in the Clarkston area. The CCC includes classrooms and an auditorium, as well as activity fields for sports and other outdoor events. The CCC focuses on educational and recreational activities in the Clarkston area. Swaney was employed by the CCC from November 2003 until December 2012. During this time, Swaney was its office manager. Her responsibilities included bookkeeping and other administrative tasks. In 2010, Joan Swaney, 67, of Clarkston, Georgia, was elected to serve on the city council in Clarkston. She also served as Clarkston’s vice mayor during her tenure. Swaney resigned her position in October 2013 after she was indicted by a federal grand jury in this case. As part of her normal duties, Swaney regularly received reimbursements for supplies she purchased on behalf of the CCC. Normally, receipts for expenses incurred and a purchase authorization form for CCC expenses were maintained for each transaction in order to document expenses. In 2010, Swaney began to write checks to herself from the CCC’s bank account at BB&T. Between 2010 and 2012, she made the checks payable directly to herself and forged the signature of the CCC’s director. The checks were written without the authorization of the CCC’s director, who managed the day-to-day affairs of the CCC. Swaney deposited the forged checks into her personal account and used the CCC’s funds to pay personal expenses and her personal credit card bills. During this period, she used CCC funds to pay for a variety of personal expenses, including: Charges totaling $1,424 in June 2010 for a family vacation Charges totaling approximately $3,000 in September 2010 for personal vehicle repairs Charges totaling $1,590 in June 2011 for a charter boat rental Swaney varied the check amounts and made fictitious entries in the memo lines of the checks in order to make it appear the funds had been spent on expenses relating to the CCC’s operations. At the same time, she also used the CCC debit card to withdraw cash from the CCC’s BB&T bank account, generally withdrawing between $300 and $600 at a time. Swaney made cash withdrawals using the debit card at least once or twice a month. The loss to the CCC exceeded $60,000. The charges in this case carry a maximum sentence of 30 years in prison and a fine of up to $1,000,000. In determining the actual sentence, the court will consider the United States Sentencing Guidelines, which are not binding but provide appropriate sentencing ranges for most offenders. Swaney’s sentencing is scheduled for March 6, 2014, at 10:00 a.m. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Kurt Erskine is prosecuting the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Pressemails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Atlanta Division is http://www.justice.gov/usao/gan/.
corruption In El Paso this morning, former El Paso Independent School District Trustee Salvador “Sal” Mena was sentenced to three years in federal prison for accepting more than $176,000 in cash bribes in exchange for his vote and official influence, announced United States Attorney Robert Pitman and FBI Special Agent in Charge Douglas E. Lindquist, El Paso Division. In addition to the prison term, United States District Judge Frank Montalvo ordered that Mena forfeit to the federal government $176,455 and be placed under supervised release for a period of three years after completing his prison term. Mena was remanded into federal custody following today’s hearing. Previously, Mena pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud and deprivation of honest services. By pleading guilty, Mena admitted that he set up a sham consulting contract with an EPISD vendor whereby he received income, but provided no consulting services. Additionally, in exchange for his vote, support, and influence for vendors, he instructed vendors seeking to do business with EPISD to make contributions to his election and re-election campaigns. This morning, Judge Montalvo also sentenced former El Paso resident Christopher Chol-Su Pak to three years of probation and ordered him to pay a $20,000 fine for helping former El Paso businessman Roberto “Bobby” Ruiz in carrying out his bribery scheme that focused on a $40 million El Paso County debt refinancing contract. Earlier this month, Ruiz received a two-year federal prison term and a $175,000 fine for his role in the scheme. In sentencing Pak to a term of probation, Judge Montalvo took into consideration the government’s recommendation regarding Pak’s sentencing based on Pak’s expeditious cooperation with the government and minimal benefit as a result of the corrupt conduct. “Today’s sentencing of Mr. Mena and Mr. Pak demonstrates the FBI’s unwavering commitment to target those individuals involved in public corruption in the El Paso community. Entrusted to serve the citizens of El Paso, Mena and Pak instead used their influence to promote their own personal interest,” stated FBI Special Agent in Charge Douglas E. Lindquist. This FBI investigation has resulted in 39 federal convictions—36 individuals who entered guilty pleas and three individuals who were convicted by juries. Assistant United States Attorneys Debra Kanof and Jose Luis Gonzalez prosecuted this case on behalf of the government.
corruption TRENTON, NJ—A Mercer County, New Jersey man admitted today he conspired with the mayor of Trenton and others to extort bribes and kickbacks in connection with a Trenton parking garage project, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Joseph Giorgianni (a/k/a “Jo Jo”), 64, of Ewing Township, New Jersey, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Michael A. Shipp in Trenton federal court to count one of an indictment returned in December 2012 charging him with conspiring with Trenton Mayor Tony F. Mack, 47; Ralphiel Mack, 41, (Mayor Mack’s brother) both of Trenton; and others to obstruct interstate commerce by extorting individuals under color of official right by corruptly arranging to obtain and obtaining money and things of value in exchange for Tony Mack’s exercise of official authority and influence. Giorgianni also pleaded guilty to count eight in the indictment, charging him with conspiring with city of Trenton employee Charles Hall, III, 50, of Trenton, to obstruct interstate commerce by extorting another individual under color of official right by corruptly arranging to obtain and obtaining money and things of value from that individual in exchange for Hall’s exercise of official authority and influence in connection with the administration of a power-washing contract. Giorgianni also pleaded guilty to charges contained in a separate indictment returned in March 2013, which included conspiring with others, including Hall, to distribute and possess with intent to distribute oxycodone (count one) and to being a felon in possession of a firearm (count six). An associate of Giorgianni, Mary Manfredo, 65, of Lawrenceville, New Jersey, pleaded guilty to conspiring with Giorgianni, Hall and others to distribute and possess with intent to distribute oxycodone (count one of the March 2013 indictment). Hall, a former city of Trenton employee, pleaded guilty in February 2013 to conspiring to obstruct commerce by extortion under color of official right by agreeing with Giorgianni, Tony Mack, and Ralphiel Mack to obtain payments from the purported developers of the parking garage project in exchange for Tony Mack’s official assistance on the project. Hall also admitted his involvement in the narcotics distribution conspiracy involving Giorgianni, Manfredo, and others in connection with the purchase and sale of oxycodone. The extortion and narcotics conspiracy counts are punishable by a maximum potential prison term of 20 years in prison per count. The firearms count carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison. All offenses except the narcotics offense carry a maximum fine of $250,000; the narcotics offense has a $1 million maximum fine. Sentencing for both defendants has been scheduled for March 19, 2014. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI’s Trenton Resident Agency, Newark Field Office, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford, for the investigation leading to today’s guilty pleas. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Eric W. Moran and Matthew J. Skahill of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division in Trenton and Camden, respectively. The charges and allegations in the referenced indictments are merely accusations, and all defendants with pending charges are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption LOS ANGELES—Robert A. Rizzo, who for years was the top administrator in the city of Bell and who became a symbol of municipal corruption, has agreed to plead guilty to federal charges in a scheme that resulted in hundreds of thousands of dollars in unpaid federal income tax. In a plea agreement filed today in United States District Court, the 59-year-old Rizzo agreed to plead guilty to two felony charges: conspiracy and filing a false federal income tax return with the Internal Revenue Service. In the plea agreement, the Torrance resident admitted that he created a corporation to fraudulently claim losses on his income tax return, which served to illegally reduce his tax liability on the significant income he was receiving from the city of Bell. According to the plea agreement and the information, which is the charging document in the case and was also filed this morning, Rizzo, sometime in 2002, created an S Corporation that he called R.A. Rizzo Incorporated (RARI). Rizzo was assisted in the scheme by co-conspirators that included his tax preparer, Robert J. Melcher, who has pleaded guilty to aiding and abetting the filing of a false tax return. Rizzo used RARI to claim bogus losses in relation to a purported rental property in Auburn, Washington. RARI’s corporate tax return fraudulently deducted more than $409,731 in losses for the years 2006 through 2009. Rizzo also admitted in his plea agreement that he used a RARI account to pay for more than $80,000 in personal expenses in 2009 and $120,000 in construction work on his residence in Huntington Beach in 2010. RARI’s tax returns falsely claimed that these expenses were related to rental property. “It is regrettable that some public officials believe they are above the law,” said Richard Weber, Chief, IRS-Criminal Investigation. “Instead of filing accurate tax returns, Mr. Rizzo claimed bogus corporate losses on his income tax return to illegally reduce his tax liability. Pursuing public servants who corruptly endeavor to circumvent the tax laws to fund their lavish lifestyles is a top priority for IRS-Criminal Investigation.” As part of his plea agreement Rizzo agreed to file amended individual and S Corporation tax returns for the years 2006 through 2010 that will correctly report all income and expenses. He also agreed to pay all additional taxes and penalties, including the 75 percent fraud penalty. As a result of their actions, Rizzo and his co-conspirators caused the IRS to suffer losses of more than $300,000 for the 2006 through 2010 years. Rizzo will be summoned to appear in federal court for an arraignment in this case. Once he pleads guilty to the two felony charges, Rizzo will face a maximum statutory sentence of eight years in federal prison. Melcher, who as a result of his guilty plea faces a sentence of up to three years in prison, is scheduled to be sentenced next year by United States District Judge George H. King. The cases against Rizzo and Melcher are part of an ongoing investigation being conducted by special agents with IRS-Criminal Investigation and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
corruption HOUSTON—Crystal M. Washington, aka Crystal Bureau, 53, has been convicted on three counts as charged by a federal jury sitting in Houston, announced United States Attorney Kenneth Magidson. Washington was employed as a parole officer at the Texas Department of Criminal Justice (TDCJ) Office located on Hamilton Street in Houston. Following a two-day trial, the jury found Washington accepted bribes from a parolee—a suspected heroin dealer—from 2009 to 2012 and that she warned the dealer of a Houston Police Department investigation in 2009. She was convicted of conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute heroin, as well as conspiracy to commit extortion under color of official right for accepting money from the dealer. Further evidence was presented that showed Washington accepting money from a cooperating parolee in May 2012. U.S. District Judge Lee H. Rosenthal, who presided over the trial, has set sentencing for March 25, 2014. At that time, Washington faces up to 20 years in federal prison on each count. In addition, the extortion convictions carry as possible punishment maximum $250,000 fines, while the conspiracy count could result in a $1 million fine. Washington was relieved of all duties and her employment terminated upon arrest. She was permitted to remain on bond, but the court modified the conditions to include electronic monitoring based upon the jury’s verdict today. The operation was a combined public corruption task force effort by the FBI, Houston Police Department, TDCJ-Office of Inspector General, and the Texas Rangers. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Jim McAlister and Carolyn Ferko.
corruption LEXINGTON—Timothy Alexander Conley, the Morgan County judge executive, has been charged with soliciting and accepting kickbacks from a Salyersville, Kentucky-based bridge contractor in exchange for contract awards, according to a federal indictment unsealed today. The indictment, filed under seal on Thursday, December 5, charges Conley and Kenneth Lee Gambill and Ruth L. Gambill, the co-owners of PBTHNOJJ Construction, with several offenses arising from the kickback scheme. Conley and Kenneth Gambill are both charged with four counts of mail fraud and one count of theft from a program receiving federal funds. All three defendants are also charged with conspiring to launder money. Specifically, the indictment alleges that, from early 2009 until August 2013, as part of a mail fraud scheme, Conley rigged competitive bidding processes to select PBTHNOJJ Construction for Morgan County construction contracts. After obtaining PBTHNOJJ Construction’s payments for these contracts, Kenneth Gambill then delivered to Conley cash kickbacks from the contract proceeds. In addition, Conley and Kenneth Gambill are charged with defrauding a federally funded program. The indictment alleges that Conley misappropriated money from Morgan County, which received federal funding for emergency services, debris cleanup, and rebuilding efforts following a tornado that swept through West Liberty, Kentucky, on March 2, 2012. As part of the debris cleanup effort, Morgan County contracted with PBTHNOJJ Construction and other entities. Conley allegedly abused his position to ensure that PBTHNOJJ Construction received excessive payments for this work. Finally, Conley, Kenneth Gambill, and Ruth Gambill are charged with conspiring to launder the proceeds of these crimes, in order to promote ongoing illegal activities and conceal the nature and source of the funds, among other things. Kerry B. Harvey, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky; Perrye Turner, Special Agent in Charge, FBI; and Jack Conway, Kentucky Attorney General, jointly announced the indictment today. The investigation preceding the indictment was conducted by the FBI and the Kentucky Attorney General’s Office. The indictment was presented to the grand jury by Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew T. Boone. Conley is scheduled to appear in federal court on Tuesday, December 10 in Lexington at 3:00 p.m. Kenneth Gambill will appear in court on December 30 in Lexington. A date for Ruth Gambill to appear in court has not yet been scheduled. The mail fraud and money laundering counts each carry a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison. The federal program fraud count carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison. The maximum fine for each count is $250,000. However, any sentence following a conviction would be imposed by the court after consideration of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and the federal statutes. An indictment is an accusation only. A defendant is presumed innocent and is entitled to a fair trial at which the government must prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption WASHINGTON—Five criminal cases that charge a total of 18 current or one-time deputy sheriffs of various ranks were unsealed today as part of ongoing and wide-ranging FBI investigation into allegations of civil rights violations and corruption involving members of the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department. Four grand jury indictments and one criminal complaint allege crimes that include unjustified beatings of jail inmates and visitors at downtown Los Angeles jail facilities, unjustified detentions, and a conspiracy to obstruct a federal investigation into misconduct at the Men’s Central Jail. Federal authorities announced the charges after 16 of the defendants were taken into custody earlier today. Those defendants are expected to be arraigned on the charges this afternoon in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles. “The five cases allege a wide scope of illegal conduct,” said U.S. Attorney André Birotte, Jr. of the Central District of California. “This investigation started by focusing on misconduct in county jails, and we uncovered examples of civil rights violations that included excessive force and unlawful arrests. Our investigation also found that these incidents did not take place in a vacuum—in fact, they demonstrated behavior that had become institutionalized. The pattern of activity alleged in the obstruction of justice case shows how some members of the Sheriff’s Department considered themselves to be above the law. Instead of cooperating with the federal investigation to ensure that corrupt law enforcement officers would be brought to justice, the defendants in this case are accused of taking affirmative steps designed to ensure that light would not shine on illegal conduct that violated basic constitutional rights.” Bill Lewis, the Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Los Angeles Field Office, commented, “The defendants charged in this case are facing serious allegations, including violating the trust of the public they were sworn to serve. It is equally as important to point out that these charges should not reflect on the thousands of men and women of the Sheriff’s Department who proudly serve the citizens of Los Angeles County and who partner with the FBI in a variety of crime areas.” This morning, FBI agents took into custody 16 of the 18 defendants named in four indictments and one criminal complaint. Most of the defendants were arrested at various LASD facilities. The five cases, which are part of an ongoing investigation, were unsealed this morning. United States v. Brunsting and Branum, CR13-573 Two deputy sheriffs—Bryan Brunsting and Jason Branum—are charged in a six-count indictment with civil rights violations and making false statements in reports. Brunsting, who was a training officer, is charged in relation to an incident in which an inmate allegedly was assaulted and suffered bodily injury. Both Brunsting and Branum are charged in another assault. The victims were inmates at the Twin Towers Correctional Facility, where both deputies worked. Following the two incidents, the indictment alleges that Brunsting used deputies he was training to file reports that covered up the abuse. This case is being handled by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Brandon Fox, Lizabeth A. Rhodes of the Central District of California, and Margaret Carter of the Civil Rights and Public Corruption Section. United States v. Gonzalez, et al., CR13-574 This indictment charges a sergeant and four deputies with civil rights violations that allege they arrested or detained five victims—including the Austrian consul general—when they arrived to visit inmates at the Men’s Central Jail (MCJ) in 2010 and 2011. The lead defendant in this indictment—Sergeant Eric Gonzalez, who was a supervisor in the MCJ visiting center but no longer works for LASD—fostered an atmosphere “that encouraged and tolerated abuses of the law, including through the use of unjustified force and unreasonable searches and seizures by deputy sheriffs he supervised,” according to the indictment. Each of the four deputies—Sussie Ayala, Fernando Luviano, Pantamitr Zunggeemoge, and Noel Womack—is charged with participating in at least one of the four incidents in which victims allegedly suffered civil rights violations. In one incident, a man suffered a broken arm and a dislocated shoulder that has left him permanently disabled. In another incident, the Austrian consul general and her husband were handcuffed and detained. This case is being handled by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Brandon Fox, Lizabeth A. Rhodes of the Central District of California, and Margaret Carter of the Civil Rights and Public Corruption Section. United States v. Thompson, et al., CR13-819 This six-count indictment that alleges a broad conspiracy to obstruct justice charges seven sworn members of the LASD. This case developed when deputies assigned to the Men’s Central Jail—including Lieutenant Gregory Thompson, who oversaw LASD’s Operation Safe Jails Program, and Lieutenant Stephen Leavins, who was assigned to the LASD’s Internal Criminal Investigations Bureau—learned that an inmate was an FBI informant and was acting as a cooperator in the FBI’s corruption and civil rights investigation. After learning that the inmate received a cellular phone from a deputy sheriff who took a bribe and that the inmate was part of a civil rights investigation, those allegedly involved in the obstruction scheme took affirmative steps to hide the cooperator from the FBI and the United States Marshals Service, which was attempting to bring the inmate to testify before a federal grand jury in response to an order issued by a federal judge. As part of the conspiracy, the deputies allegedly altered records to make it appear that the cooperator had been released. They then re-booked the inmate under a different name and then told the cooperator that he had been abandoned by the FBI. Over the course of several weeks, the deputy sheriffs allegedly also attempted to obtain an order from a Los Angeles Superior Court judge that would have compelled the FBI to turn over information about its investigation to LASD. After the judge refused to issue such an order, according to the indictment, two LASD sergeants who are charged in this case nevertheless confronted an FBI special agent at her residence in an attempt to intimidate her into providing details about the investigation. The sergeants falsely told the special agent and her supervisor that they were obtaining a warrant for her arrest, according to the indictment. Thompson no longer works for LASD. The other deputies named in this indictment are Gerard Smith, Mickey Manzo, and James Sexton, who were assigned to the Operation Safe Jails Program; and Scott Craig and Maricella Long, who were LASD sergeants within the Internal Criminal Investigations Bureau. This case is being handled by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Brandon Fox, Lizabeth A. Rhodes of the Central District of California, and Margaret Carter of the Civil Rights and Public Corruption Section. United States v. Piquette, CR13-821 Deputy Richard Piquette is charged in the fourth indictment with illegally building and possessing an assault rifle. The indictment charges Piquette with possessing an unregistered Noveske Rifleworks N-4 .223 caliber rifle with a barrel length of less than 16 inches. The second count in the indictment charges Piquette with manufacturing the Noveske rifle. Piquette, who is currently on leave with LASD, was previously assigned to the Twin Towers Correctional Facility. The investigation in this case was conducted by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives. This case is being handled by Assistant U.S. Attorney Lane Dilg of the Civil Rights and Public Corruption Section. United States v. Khounthavong, et al., 13-3105M The fifth case unsealed today is a criminal complaint that charges three LASD deputies, all of whom are brothers, with conspiracy to make false statements to two banks in connection with a “buy-and-bail” mortgage fraud scheme. The complaint alleges that the three deputies—Billy Khounthavong, Benny Khounthavong, and Johnny Khounthavong—made false statements and reports to Flagstar Bank to purchase a 3,900-square-foot residence in Corona. The brothers then made additional false statements and reports to Bank of America in relation to another large residence they owned. The brothers walked away from—or “bailed” on—that home in which they were “under water,” meaning they owed substantially more than the residence was worth. As a result of the scheme, the brothers allegedly avoided more than $340,000 of unpaid mortgage debt. Benny Khounthavong and Johnny Khounthavong are assigned to LASD jail facilities. This case is being handled by Assistant U.S. Attorney Margaret. An indictment contains allegations that a defendant has committed a crime. Every defendant is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty. The five cases announced today are part of an ongoing investigation being conducted by the FBI.
corruption ALEXANDRIA, VA—Douglas G. “Bo” Taylor, age 52, of Remington, Virginia, the former chief of the Remington Volunteer Fire and Rescue Department (RVFD), was sentenced today to 24 months’ incarceration, to be followed by a term of three years of supervised release, by U.S. District Judge Leonie M. Brinkema in the Eastern District of Virginia for his role in a wire fraud scheme that defrauded the RVFD and the Prince William County School System and the filing of false individual income tax returns. Taylor was also ordered to pay restitution of $70,833 to the Remington Fire Department, $59,419 to the Prince William County Schools, and $79,576 to the Internal Revenue Service. Dana J. Boente, Acting United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia; Valerie Parlave, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office; and Thomas J. Kelly, Special Agent in Charge of the Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation Section, Washington, D.C. Field Office made the announcement today after the sentencing. According to court records, Taylor served as the chief of the RVFD from 1994 through 2011, during a time when the RVFD fire station underwent major renovations and reconstruction with funding, in significant part, from the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Taylor, a licensed master electrician, offered to do some of the renovations at the fire station and only seek reimbursement for his out of pocket expenses. Taylor then submitted false invoices which contained charges for materials Taylor did not purchase and charges for labor that, at times, was never performed, or was inflated from the hours that were actually performed. Taylor also used a Prince William County Public Schools System (PWCS) credit card to purchase some of the materials used at the fire station project (and elsewhere). In total, Taylor defrauded the RVFD of more than $80,000 and the PWCS of approximately $60,000. Finally, Taylor did not disclose the money he fraudulently obtained from the RVFD and winnings from the Virginia lottery on two individual income tax returns filed with the IRS. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Washington Field Office, and the Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Mark D. Lytle is prosecuting the case on behalf of the United States. The Office of the U.S. Attorney thanks the following agencies for their assistance in the investigation and prosecution of this matter: United States Department of Agriculture; United States Department of Education, Office of Inspector General; and the Prince William County School System. Any person who believes they may have information regarding public corruption in the Northern Virginia area is encouraged to call the FBI’s Northern Virginia Public Corruption Hotline at 703-686-6225. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia at http://www.justice.gov/usao/vae.
corruption LEXINGTON—The former executive director of the Buffalo Trace/Gateway Narcotics Task Force was indicted today for stealing public funds. According to the indictment returned today by a federal grand jury in Lexington, in the two-and-a-half-year period that 52 year-old Timothy George Fegan of Germantown, Kentucky, served as the task force’s director, he wrongfully appropriated thousands of dollars in cash that was in the care, custody, and control of the task force. The indictment alleges that Fegan took cash proceeds that task force agents seized during drug investigations and money that the task force kept on hand to perform controlled drug buys. The Buffalo Trace/Gateway Narcotics Task Force was organized by several county and city governments and was responsible for the investigation of drug crimes in various northern and eastern Kentucky counties. The task force was funded by federal and state grants and funds contributed by the county and city governments that formed it. The task force’s base of operations was in Maysville, Kentucky, and Fegan served there as the task force’s executive director from April 2010 until November 2012. Kerry B. Harvey, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky, and Perrye Turner, Special Agent in Charge, FBI, jointly announced the indictment. The investigation preceding the indictment was conducted by the FBI and the Kentucky State Police. The indictment was presented to the grand jury by Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew T. Boone. A date for Fegan to appear in court has not yet been scheduled. He faces up to 10 years in prison and a maximum fine of $250,000 for each charge. However, any sentence following a conviction would be imposed by the Court after consideration of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and the federal statutes. Any indictment is an accusation only. A defendant is presumed innocent and is entitled to a fair trial at which government must prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption The former treasurer of Madison County, Illinois was sentenced to 30 months in prison by the U.S. District Court in East St. Louis, Illinois, on December 6, 2013, for violating the Sherman Antitrust Act, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of Illinois, Stephen R. Wigginton, announced today. Fred Bathon, 58, had pleaded guilty on February 5, 2013, to a violation of the Sherman Antitrust Act for his role in structuring Madison County property tax sales in a way that increased prices and rewarded campaign contributors. In addition to the thirty month sentence, Bathon was ordered to pay a $20,000 fine and will serve two years’ supervised release after his sentence of incarceration. In imposing sentence, the court noted the impossibility of making the individualized determination of loss as to each victim, which is required by law before the court can impose an order of restitution on a defendant. There were thousands of homeowners who were impacted by the tax auctions, and each homeowner’s situation was legally unique, making calculation of individual losses impossible. At Illinois tax lien auctions, investors bid to purchase tax lien certificates issued against delinquent tax payers. Investors are supposed to compete to purchase these tax liens by bidding on the interest rate the property owner will be required to pay prior to redeeming the tax lien attached to the owner’s property. The bid opens at no more than the statutory maximum of 18 percent and through a competitive bidding process can be driven as low as zero percent. The bidder offering the least penalty percentage rate, i.e., the bidder who is willing to allow the owner to redeem his property for the smallest penalty, is allowed to purchase the tax lien. As such, competitive bidding benefits financially distressed homeowners by reducing the amount of money that they have to pay to save their home from foreclosure; however, that same system reduces the profit made by tax buyers. Tax buyers prefer to receive high interest rates, which corresponds to higher profits. For the tax sales conducted in 2005-2008, Fred Bathon structured the tax sales in a way that eliminated competitive bidding and allowed the tax buyers to engage in price fixing by only bidding the statutory maximum interest rate of 18 percent. In addition to awarding properties at non-competitive interest rates, Bathon also utilized a seating chart to ensure that his largest campaign contributors were recognized by the auctioneer as the winning bidder. By 2007 and 2008, the bid rigging and price fixing was so pervasive that distressed homeowners were charged the statutory maximum interest rate on nearly every property tax lien sold. During the tax auction occurring November 14-15, 2007, 2,549 out of 2,574 property tax liens were awarded to bidders for the statutory maximum interest rate of 18 percent, which represented 99.03 percent of the property tax liens auctioned. During the tax auction occurring November 13-14, 2008, 2,290 out of 2,364 property tax liens were awarded to bidders for the statutory maximum interest rate of 18 percent, which represented 96.86 percent of the property tax liens auctioned. Under Illinois law, Bathon will also forfeit his entire public pension as a result of his conviction. The Illinois Pension Code provides that “[n]one of the benefits herein provided for shall be paid to any person who is convicted of any felony relating to or arising out of or in connection with his or her service as a member.” This provision of Illinois law is often referred to as the “Ryan Rule,” following the Illinois Supreme Court’s decision in Ryan v. Bd. of Trustees of Gen. Assembly Ret. Sys., 236 Ill. 2d 315, 924 N.E.2d 970 (2010), which determined former Governor George Ryan forfeited all his public pension benefits following his conviction on federal corruption charges. The state pension forfeiture provision reaches all public pension benefits, including those earned while serving in public positions with no connection or nexus to the federal conviction. The investigation was conducted through the Metro East Public Corruption Task Force by agents from the Internal Revenue Service and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Steven D. Weinhoeft and Norman R. Smith.
corruption BIRMINGHAM—A federal judge today sentenced the former commander of the West Alabama Narcotics Task Force to one year and a day in prison for stealing at least $125,000 from suspected drug proceeds seized by the multi-agency task force, announced U.S. Attorney Joyce White Vance and FBI Special Agent in Charge Richard D. Schwein, Jr. Jeffrey Lynn Snyder, 55, of Carrollton, pleaded guilty in June to one count of theft from a program that received more than $10,000 in federal benefits within a one-year period. U.S. District Court Judge Inge P. Johnson sentenced Snyder to prison and, in accordance with the plea agreement he entered with the government in May, ordered him to pay $125,000 restitution to the West Alabama Narcotics Task Force, The U.S. Attorney’s Office charged Snyder in May with embezzling the task force money between June 2010 and June 2012, when he left the task force. "Joint task force operations are an important part of the combined law enforcement effort to control illegal drug trafficking. This theft by a city police captain impaired the financial condition of the unit and violated the trust placed in him by fellow officers," Vance said. "Police officers who violate their oath to protect and serve the public are rare, but those who breach that trust must be prosecuted and held to account." “Honesty and integrity are fundamental guiding principles for any law enforcement officer, regardless of rank or position," Schwein said. "Fortunately, Mr. Snyder’s actions are not reflective of the vast majority of the men and women in law enforcement who go to work every day to protect and serve while upholding the principles of honesty and integrity. Today, Mr. Snyder pays the price for his actions and is being held accountable for violating the trust the good people of West Alabama placed in him.” The West Alabama Narcotics Task Force is composed of officers from the Tuscaloosa Police Department, Tuscaloosa County Sheriff’s Office, Northport Police Department, and University of Alabama Police Department. It is tasked to investigate all drug crimes in Tuscaloosa County. Snyder was a 29-year member of the Tuscaloosa Police Department, retiring as a captain in December 2012. He was detailed to the narcotics task force in 1989 and became its commander in June 2002, according to court records. Task force members periodically seized money suspected to be proceeds of illegal drug transactions and turned the money in to Snyder, who was responsible for depositing the money into bank accounts while condemnation proceedings were pursued through court, according to his plea agreement. Snyder was entrusted to receive the seized money, log it in task force ledger books, and deposit it in task force bank accounts. Snyder began embezzling from the seized funds no later than June 2010. He executed his scheme “by pocketing some or all of the funds seized during various arrests and then failing to correctly account for those funds,” he acknowledged in his plea agreement. The FBI investigated the case, with assistance from the West Alabama Narcotics Task Force. Assistant U.S. Attorney Henry Cornelius prosecuted the case.
corruption In Del Rio, 52-year-old Salvador Castillon, owner of South Texas Concrete based in Eagle Pass, pleaded guilty to paying bribes to a Maverick County commissioner in order to secure county construction contracts, announced United States Attorney Robert Pitman and FBI Special Agent in Charge Armando Fernandez. Appearing before U.S. District Judge Alia Moses, Castillon pleaded guilty to one count of paying a bribe to an agent of an organization receiving federal funds. According to court records, Castillon was awarded Maverick County construction contracts totaling $416,800 in 2010 and $148,000 in 2011. Castillon admitted that during that time period, he paid the Maverick County Precinct 2 commissioner approximately $57,000 in return for being awarded the construction contracts. Castillon, who remains on bond pending sentencing, faces up to 10 years in federal prison and a maximum $250,000 fine. Sentencing is scheduled for 9:00 a.m. on May 12, 2014, before Judge Moses in Del Rio. This ongoing investigation is being conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Texas Department of Public Safety. Individuals who have first-hand information about corruption, fraud, or bribery related to Maverick County are urged to contact the FBI at (210) 225-6741. Assistant United States Attorney Michael Galdo is prosecuting this case on behalf of the government.
corruption A Cuyahoga Falls man was sentenced to more than eight years in prison and ordered to pay more than $2 million in restitution for paying bribes to public officials as part of the Cuyahoga County corruption investigation, law enforcement officials said. Steven W. Pumper, 49, was sentenced to 97 months in prison by U.S. District Judge Sara Lioi. She also ordered Pumper to pay restitution in the amounts of $1.7 million to Phillips Health Care, $186,000 to Cuyahoga County, $117,000 to Maple Heights City Schools, and $15,000 to Parma City Schools. Pumper previously pleaded guilty to a nine-count information for charges including conspiracy to commit bribery of programs receiving federal funds, obstruction of justice, bribery, mail fraud, structuring, and mail fraud. Pumper, the former president and CEO of DAS Construction, admitted to paying bribes to public officials in return for official actions on his behalf. For example, Pumper provided $33,000 in cash to then-Cuyahoga County Commissioner Jimmy Dimora and also provided free improvements to Dimora’s home worth tens of thousands of dollars. These actions were done in return for Dimora’s support on several projects in which Pumper was involved, including securing funding for development projects. In another example, Pumper provided a political donation to the Cuyahoga County Democratic Party that was specifically to be used by the campaign of Parma School Board member J. Kevin Kelley. In return, Kelley helped Pumper’s company secure a $96,000 contract from the school district. Dimora is currently serving a 28-year prison sentence while Kelley is scheduled to be sentenced later this month. This case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Ann C. Rowland and Antoinette T. Bacon following an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Cleveland office and the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation.
corruption A three-count indictment was unsealed today in federal court in Brooklyn, New York, charging Redinel Dervishaj, Besnik Llakatura, and Denis Nikolla with Hobbs Act extortion conspiracy, attempted Hobbs Act extortion, and brandishing a firearm in relation to the extortion. The charges arose from the defendants’ extortion of money from a Queens County restaurant owner. Llakatura was at the time of the alleged offenses a police officer with the New York City Police Department (NYPD), assigned to the 120th Precinct in Staten Island, New York. He was suspended without pay upon his arrest. The defendants are scheduled to be arraigned this afternoon at the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York before United States Magistrate Judge Joan Azrack. The charges were announced by Loretta E. Lynch, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York; George Venizelos, Assistant Director in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation, New York Field Office (FBI); and Raymond W. Kelly, Commissioner, NYPD. “The defendants told their victims they offered 'protection,' but in reality, they peddled fear and intimidation through the Albanian community—their community—of Queens,” stated United States Attorney Lynch. “When one victim turned to law enforcement for help, he was betrayed again by a corrupt officer on the take, who turned his back on his badge, his oath, and his friend in exchange for extortion money in his pocket.” Ms. Lynch expressed her thanks to members of the Joint Organized Crime Task Force, which includes agents of the FBI and detectives of the NYPD, which led the investigation, as well as the NYPD’s Internal Affairs Division for its cooperation and assistance in the investigation. “By creating a climate of fear, the defendants allegedly coerced an innocent restaurant owner into paying for so-called protective services. The victim was further betrayed when seeking the assistance of Besnik Llakatura, an NYPD officer whose sinister intentions were shrouded by his badge of honor. But Llakatura didn’t serve his community with honor; he, instead, abused his powers to the detriment of the public trust. He remains an exception to those law enforcement officers who work selflessly to weed out crime and corruption in their communities,” stated FBI Assistant Director in Charge Venizelos. “Llakatura is alleged to have exploited his friendship and shared heritage in order to help the defendants extort a restaurateur. Once it was reported, the NYPD Internal Affairs Bureau and the Department’s Organized Crime Investigations Division thoroughly responded, resulting in the charges being announced today,” Commissioner Kelly said. According to the indictment and court filings, Dervishaj, Llakatura, and Nikolla demanded monthly payments from a Queens restaurant owner in exchange for “protection,” repeatedly using threats and intimidation to ensure his compliance. The scheme began shortly after the victim opened a restaurant in Astoria when he was visited by Dervishaj and told that he had opened a business in “our neighborhood” and, as a result, “you have to pay us.” The restaurant owner, who understood that he was targeted because he, like the defendants, is of Albanian descent, sought help from his friend Llakatura. Unbeknownst to him, Llakatura, an NYPD officer on Staten Island since 2006, was conspiring with Dervishaj in the extortion. Llakatura discouraged the restaurant owner from going to the police and sought to leverage his position to persuade the victim that he had no choice but to make the demanded payments. When the victim resisted, he was threatened with physical violence and chased at gunpoint down the street in Queens by Nikolla. Court-authorized wiretaps of the defendants’ telephones uncovered detailed evidence of their efforts to maintain control over businesses in the neighborhood through fear, intimidation, and violence. In one intercepted call, Llakatura joked about how he “taxes” local businesses. In another, Nikolla described to Dervishaj how he had grabbed another victim “by the neck” because he had told Nikolla that he only had $2,000 and could not pay more. (The referenced language from the intercepted calls is based on draft translations from Albanian.) Over the course of five months, each of the three defendants took turns collecting monthly payments from the Astoria restaurant owner, ultimately collecting $24,000 in so-called protection money. The charges announced today are merely allegations, and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. The government’s case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Nadia Shihata and M. Kristin Mace. Defendants: Redinel Dervishaj, a/k/a “Redi” Age: 37 Queens, New York Besnik Llakatura, a/k/a “Besi” and “Nick” Age: 34 Staten Island, New York Denis Nikolla Age: 33 Brooklyn, New York Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption In El Paso this morning, Roberto “Bobby” Ruiz, a former representative for New York–based financial services firm Bear Stearns, was sentenced to two years in federal prison, followed by three years of supervised release, for his role in a “pay- to-play” scheme uncovered during the ongoing public corruption investigation in El Paso, announced United States Attorney Robert Pitman and FBI Special Agent in Charge Douglas E. Lindquist, El Paso Division. United States District Judge Frank Montalvo also ordered that Ruiz pay a $175,000 fine and to self-surrender to the Dallas Office of the U.S. Marshals Service on January 7, 2014, to begin serving his prison term. In sentencing Ruiz below the applicable advisory U.S. Sentencing Guidelines, Judge Montalvo took into consideration the government’s request to the court to acknowledge Ruiz’ lengthy, extensive, and beneficial assistance to the government in the El Paso public corruption investigation, as well as his assistance to other state and federal initiatives in other jurisdictions. Judge Montalvo also sentenced former El Paso city representative and attorney Raymond Telles this morning to five years of probation and ordered Telles to pay a $4,000 fine for his role in the conspiracy. In sentencing Telles to a term of probation, Judge Montalvo took into consideration the government’s recommendation regarding Telles’ sentencing based on Telles’ expeditious cooperation with the government, within one month of learning he was under investigation, and Telles’ truthful and complete cooperation. In addition, the judge recognized Telles’ minimal benefit as a result of corrupt conduct. According to counsel for Telles, the defendant voluntarily surrendered his Texas law license in 2009 and has no intent to practice law in the future. Previously, Telles and Ruiz pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud and deprivation of honest services. By pleading guilty, both admitted to conspiring to participate in a bribery scheme in an effort to secure a $40 million El Paso County debt refinancing contract. “The sentencing of Mr. Ruiz and Mr. Telles are a reminder that those who illegally conspire to profit from taxpayer dollars will have to answer to the people of El Paso,” stated FBI Special Agent in Charge Douglas E. Lindquist. This FBI investigation has resulted in 39 federal convictions—36 individuals who entered guilty pleas and three individuals who were convicted by juries. Assistant United States Attorneys Debra Kanof and Jose Luis Gonzalez prosecuted this case on behalf of the government.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—A federal jury yesterday found 52-year-old Rafael Cordero, a 23-year veteran of the Philadelphia Police force, guilty of interfering with the federal drug investigation of the Christian Serrano/Edwin Medina drug trafficking organizations (DTOs). Cordero provided sensitive law enforcement information about drug investigations to his half-brother, David Garcia, a member of the Serrano/Medina DTOs. Cordero told his half-brother about a surveillance camera put up by the DEA to monitor activities occurring at a garage, located at 538 East Indiana Street in Philadelphia, used by the Medina DTO. When the FBI and DEA executed search warrants at several locations associated with the Serrano/Medina DTOs, including the garage, Cordero, after being informed about the searches by his half-brother and without having any official reason to do so, went to the search location on East Indiana Street and began looking in the windows of the garage. When confronted by law enforcement and brought inside the location, Cordero misrepresented his reason for being at the location and offered to assist with the search. At no time did Cordero provide his name to law enforcement. Immediately after leaving the search location, Cordero placed a call to David Garcia and shared with him, among other things, how many law enforcement officers were conducting the search and what areas of the garage they were searching. Garcia removed a DVR tape that law enforcement had inadvertently failed to seize during the search and viewed it to see if Cordero was recorded at the garage at the time of the search, which he was. At no time did Cordero inform law enforcement that David Garcia had possession of the video tape. When questioned by federal agents, Cordero denied giving information to Garcia regarding the surveillance camera, denied knowing of anyone associated with the Indiana Street garage, denied having spoken to David Garcia about the search at the garage, and denied passing on information regarding cooperating witnesses to Garcia, all of which were false statements. Cordero faces a maximum possible sentence of 20 years’ imprisonment. A sentencing date has not yet been set. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Drug Enforcement Administration, and the Philadelphia Police Department. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Maureen McCartney and Kevin Brenner.
corruption KANSAS CITY, MO—Special Agent in Charge (SAC) Michael Kaste of the FBI’s Kansas City Office, in partnership with U.S. Attorneys Tammy Dickinson, Western District of Missouri, and Barry Grissom, District of Kansas, announced today a new initiative aimed to solicit the public’s help in combating fraud and corruption throughout the two-state area. This new joint initiative establishes a toll-free public corruption hotline—1-855-KCPCTIP—and e-mail address—KCPCTIP@ic.fbi.gov. The FBI’s number one criminal priority is to address public corruption at all levels of government. Many times, these crimes can be difficult to detect because of their secretive nature, and even more difficult to prove without the assistance of concerned citizens. “The public’s help can make a significant difference, and the establishment of this hotline provides the public with the necessary tools to provide that help. If someone has information about potential wrongdoing by a public official or law enforcement officer, I encourage you to contact this newly established number or e-mail,” said SAC Kaste. “This hotline is a valuable tool to expose corrupt public officials so they can be brought to justice for their crimes,” Dickinson said. “Voters and taxpayers rightfully expect their elected or appointed leaders to serve honestly with integrity. When the public’s trust is betrayed by leaders who abuse their position to enrich themselves, we will investigate and prosecute the offenders to the full extent of the law.” Public corruption occurs when a public official, at any level of government, does any official act in exchange for money or other free goods or services. Accepting a bribe for awarding a contract, taking a kickback for providing a permit, or inaction by law enforcement for payment are examples of types of public corruption. A violation of federal law, public corruption includes bribes, embezzlement, racketeering, kickbacks, and money laundering as well as wire, mail, bank, and tax fraud—all which occur at the public’s expense. “Crooked public officials undermine the public’s trust in our government” said U.S. Attorney Barry Grissom. “They dishonor the many honest and hard-working men and women who serve the public at all levels of government. With the FBI’s hotline, everyone can have a hand in fighting public corruption.” The hotline number will also be featured on Lamar billboards throughout the greater Kansas City area, starting on Friday, November 22, 2013. Details regarding the various types of public corruption investigated by the FBI can be found online: http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/investigate/corruption.
corruption Michael J. Moore, United States Attorney for the Middle District of Georgia, announces that two former councilmen of the city of Forsyth, Georgia, James Edward Calloway and Desi Surtane Hansford, were sentenced by the Honorable Marc T. Treadwell in United States District Court in Macon, Georgia, today for accepting bribes in connection with the performance of their official duties. The defendants entered guilty pleas on September 3, 2013. Facts stipulated in the written plea agreements of the two men show the following: Mr. Calloway had been a councilman for 22 years and Mr. Hansford for five. Both served on the Combined Utilities Committee of the Council, which oversees electric, water, sewer, and telecommunications for the city of Forsyth. On December 27, 2012, Mr. Calloway solicited a bribe from a water and waste treatment company of $20,000 to guarantee the votes to give it the water waste contract for the City. That company immediately notified the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) of the solicitation and cooperated fully and actively with that agency throughout the investigation, which revealed that at least in part Mr. Calloway’s motive in soliciting the payment was to help Councilman Hansford rescue his home from foreclosure. A representative of the water and waste treatment company, cooperating with the FBI, met with the two councilmen on January 18,2013, at a truck stop off I-75 in Jackson, Georgia, and paid them $10,000 in currency provided by the FBI while secretly recording the meeting per FBI instructions. Mr. Calloway assured the company representative that the company would recover the amount of the bribe through a future project on which the company would be employed. Following this meeting and payment, Mr. Calloway and Mr. Hansford split the money equally. A second $10,000 payment was delivered to Mr. Calloway one week later, January 25, 2013, under similar circumstances to the first, after which he was immediately arrested and subsequently confessed. He also admitted receiving four Atlanta Falcons playoff tickets from the company, which he and Mr. Hansford shared. Mr. Calloway then cooperated with the government and participated in paying an additional $5000 (half the second $10,000 payment) to Mr. Hansford, who was then also arrested. Mr. Calloway was sentenced to serve 24 months in prison. He was also ordered to pay a $7,500 fine. Mr. Hansford received a sentence of 18 months in prison. He was also ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $3000. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Sonja Profit. “When people entrust elected officials with public office, they have a right to expect that those positions of authority will be used for the public good, not for personal gain. By prosecuting these offenses, I hope that we remind other public officials that they are not above the law and that we restore the public’s confidence in the many government officials who choose to serve so that they can truly make a positive impact,” said United States Attorney Michael J. Moore. Ricky Maxwell, Acting Special Agent in Charge, FBI, Atlanta Field Office, stated, “While most individuals, elected or otherwise, who choose to serve the public do so admirably and honorably, the need to be vigilant for corrupt or criminal activity remains. The FBI continues to carry its Public Corruption Program as its number one criminal investigative priority due to the vast potential for harm that exists. We ask that anyone with information regarding public corruption related matters please contact their nearest FBI field office.” For additional information, please contact Pamela Lightsey, Public Information Officer, United States Attorney’s Office at (478) 621-2603.
corruption CHARLESTON, WV—Mingo County’s former chief magistrate pleaded guilty in Charleston federal court to voter registration fraud, U.S. Attorney Booth Goodwin announced today. Dallas L. Toler, 45, is the fourth former Mingo County official to plead guilty to charges in connection with a federal corruption investigation. U.S. Attorney Booth Goodwin said, "Corruption is the biggest threat to democracy. In Mingo County, corruption was an epidemic. Once again in this investigation, we have a judge engaging in corruption—this time corruption of the electoral process so that he and his cohorts could keep their jobs." Goodwin continued, "The people of Mingo County are tired of these shenanigans, and we’ll continue to do what’s necessary to help them." In or about April 2012, Toler, who at the time was a member of a political campaigning and fundraising group known as "Team Mingo," participated with other individuals in an effort to identify potential voters who would support Team Mingo’s candidates in the 2012 primary election. Toler was a candidate to retain the office of magistrate. Toler, a landlord of several rental properties in and around Mingo County, went to one of his rental properties in April 2012 to collect rent. During the visit to his rental unit, Toler encountered an individual who, he learned was on probation for a felony offense. In a later encounter, Toler told the individual that he would arrange for the individual to be registered to vote in the 2012 primary election. Toler knew that the individual was on probation for a felony and was ineligible to vote. Toler later procured the completion and submission of a voter registration application in the name of the known person. Toler also caused the application to be completed and caused it to include a false statement that the known person was not on probation for a felony. On or about April 23, 2012, after receiving a voter registration card as the result of Toler’s actions, the known person unlawfully voted in the 2012 primary election in Mingo County. United States District Court Judge Thomas E. Johnston presided over today’s plea hearing and will sentence Toler on March 10, 2014. Toler faces five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Toler previously resigned as chief magistrate of Mingo County in October. As part of his federal guilty plea, Toler’s plea agreement with the Office of the U.S. Attorney required him to resign as a Mingo County magistrate and never seek elected office again. Toler was previously appointed as magistrate in January 2012 by former Mingo County Circuit Judge Michael Thornsbury. Thornsbury, 57, pleaded guilty in October for his role in a scheme to violate the constitutional rights of an individual to cover up evidence of illegal drug use and other misconduct by late Mingo County Sheriff Eugene Crum. Thornsbury faces up to 10 years in prison when he is sentenced on January 13, 2014. Another former Mingo County official, C. Michael Sparks, 44, previously pleaded guilty on November 18 in connection with a conspiracy to deprive a Mingo County resident of his constitutional rights. Sparks, Mingo County’s former prosecuting attorney, faces a year in prison when he is sentenced on February 24, 2014. In a separate matter, former Mingo County Commissioner David Baisden pleaded guilty in connection with a scheme to illegally extort a discount from a Mingo County tire store. Baisden, 66, resigned from the Mingo County Commission in October. Baisden faces up to 20 years in prison when he is sentenced on January 14, 2014. The investigation is being conducted by the FBI and the West Virginia State Police. Counsel to the United States Attorney Steven Ruby and Assistant United States Attorney Haley Bunn are handling the prosecution.
corruption WAYCROSS, GA—Randy Strickland, 55, a former Pierce County, Georgia Deputy Sheriff, pled guilty last week before United States District Court Judge William T. Moore, Jr. for his role in trafficking methamphetamine. According to the evidence presented during his guilty plea hearing, Strickland agreed to act as “security” for individuals he believed were dealing meth by acting as the lookout. Strickland’s drug activities occurred while he was in uniform and armed, and while he was driving his police vehicle. After receiving information about Strickland’s apparent criminal activities, Pierce County Sheriff Ramsey Bennett immediately requested federal law enforcement assistance. As a result, Strickland’s last “security detail” was for a confidential informant and under the watchful eyes of several federal agents. On that occasion, Strickland agreed to act as the lookout for an individual whom he believed to be a drug dealer selling ounces of methamphetamine. Shortly after receiving his charged fee of $100, which at Strickland’s direction was placed in a potato chip bag on the side of a road, Strickland was arrested by federal authorities. United States Attorney Edward Tarver stated, "Former Deputy Sheriff Strickland’s actions tarnished the badge and the community’s trust. Police corruption leaves a stain on the good work of our law enforcement community. Make no mistake that defendants who violate the trust of this community, law enforcement or otherwise, will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.” “Mr. Strickland abused his position of public trust and demonstrated a complete lack of integrity by protecting people he believed to be meth dealers,” said Brock D. Nicholson, Special Agent in Charge of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s (ICE) Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) Atlanta. “Thanks to the hard work of HSI special agents and the assistance of our partners at the ATF, FBI, Pierce County Sheriff’s Office, and the U.S. Attorney’s Office, his schemes have been broken.” Mark F. Giuliano, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated, “While the guilty plea of former Pierce County Deputy Sheriff Strickland concludes a sensitive and critical joint investigation, it also concludes one man’s career in law enforcement. These law enforcement based public corruption cases clearly illustrate the harm that can be done to the community as well as the criminal justice system, but they also provide an opportunity for those many committed law enforcement officers to re-dedicate themselves to the oaths that they were sworn to uphold.” “The criminal conduct of former Pierce County Deputy Sheriff Strickland is unconscionable and unthinkable for those serving faithfully within the criminal justice community,” said ATF Special Agent in Charge Christopher Shaefer. “The guilty plea will provide many opportunities for him to reflect on his actions and serve as notice to others that the ATF and our law enforcement partners will not tolerate this type of conduct.” Pierce County Sheriff Ramsey Bennett stated, “It is of utmost importance that the public not perceive that we in law enforcement act as though we are ‘above the law.’ The investigation and prosecution of Randy Strickland should reassure the general public that I, as sheriff will, not tolerate law enforcement officers in my jurisdiction that violate the law and the public trust. Those of us who take an oath to serve and protect the public and uphold the constitution must be vigilant in regard to our duties and what the public expects of us.” Strickland faces up to 20 years in prison for his conviction. There is no parole in the federal system. Strickland’s sentencing will be scheduled after the U.S. Probation Office completes a presentence investigation report. This case was investigated by ATF, HSI, FBI, and local law enforcement. Assistant United States Attorneys Greg Gilluly and Tania Groover are prosecuting the case on behalf of the United States. For additional information, please contact First Assistant United States Attorney James D. Durham at (912) 201-2547
corruption BROWNSVILLE, TX—A federal indictment charging Tomas Yarrington Ruvalcaba, the former governor of the state of Tamaulipas, Mexico, has been unsealed. The unsealing was announced by United States Attorneys Kenneth Magidson and Robert L. Pitman, of the Southern and Western Districts of Texas, respectively, along with Janice Ayala, special agent in charge, Homeland Security Investigations (HSI); Javier Peña, special agent in charge, Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA); Bernard Butler, acting special agent in charge, Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI); and Armando Fernandez, special agent in charge, FBI. Following an investigation that spanned several years, the sealed indictment was returned in May 2013 by a federal grand jury sitting in Brownsville. The indictment charges Yarrington, 56, and Fernando Alejandro Cano Martinez, 57, the owner of a Mexican construction firm, with conspiring to violate the provisions of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organization (RICO) statute. The two men are also charged with conspiracy to launder money, conspiracy to defraud, and conspiracy to make false statements to federally insured U.S. banks. Yarrington is also separately charged with a conspiracy to violate the provisions of the Controlled Substances Act, two substantive bank fraud charges, and a conspiracy to structure currency transactions at a domestic financial institution, while Cano is separately charged with three counts of bank fraud. Yarrington served as governor of Tamaulipas from 1999 to 2004. Tamaulipas lies along the southern border between the United States and Mexico directly across from Brownsville and Laredo. According to the indictment, beginning in approximately 1998, Yarrington received large bribes from major drug traffickers operating in the Mexican state of Tamaulipas, including the Gulf Cartel. In return, Yarrington allegedly allowed them to operate their large scale, multi-ton enterprises freely, which included the smuggling of large quantities of drugs to the United States for distribution. From 2007 to 2009, Yarrington allegedly became involved in the smuggling of large amounts of cocaine through the Port of Veracruz into the United States. Yarrington also allegedly collected bribes from commercial operations in Mexico, according to the indictment. Cano operated Materiales y Construcciones Villa de Aguayo, S.A. de C.V., a construction firm in Tamaulipas that received significant public works contracts during Yarrington’s term as governor. The indictment alleges Cano, in turn, paid bribes to Yarrington to include the acquisition of real estate in front names for him. The indictment further alleges Yarrington also received control over stolen public funds in the latter part of 2004. Portions of those funds were allegedly used to buy a Sabreliner 60 airplane in January 2005. As part of that purchase, $300,000 was transferred to a bank account in the United States. Another portion of the allegedly stolen funds, $5 million Mexican pesos, was transferred to Cano in the spring of 2005, according to the indictment. The indictment further alleges that starting in approximately 1998, Yarrington, and later to include Cano, became involved in the acquisition of valuable assets in the United States, using front names and business entities established starting in 2005 to disguise the true ownership of the assets. The assets allegedly included bank accounts, residences, airplanes, vehicles, and real estate in Bexar, Cameron, Hidalgo, and Hays Counties, many of which were acquired via allegedly fraudulent loans from banks in Texas. According to the indictment, bank accounts established in front names at Texas banks were used to receive and disburse money to carry the ongoing costs of the assets, such as loan costs and condo fees. The indictment identifies numerous specific front entities involved in the scheme, each of which allegedly applied for multi-million-dollar fraudulent loans at Texas banks, which Cano allegedly personally guaranteed. The indictment details a total of more than $7 million in transfers into the U.S. accounts of the front entities. Additional entities were created and used to apply for other loans to fund the purchase of still other assets, according to the indictment. Numerous currency transactions were allegedly conducted at First National Bank, headquartered in Edinburg, Texas, in a structured manner in amounts at or below $10,000 in order to evade the filing of Currency Transaction Reports by the bank. Tomas Yarrington Ruvalcaba Fernando Alejandro Cano Martinez Neither Yarrington nor Cano is in the custody of the United States and warrants remain outstanding for their arrests. Anyone with information about their whereabouts is asked to contact Homeland Security Investigations at 956-542-5811. Persons calling from Mexico should call 001-800-010-5237. The RICO and money laundering charges each carry sentences of up to 20 years in prison, while conspiracy to commit bank fraud carries as possible punishment up to 30 years. The drug conspiracy charges carry a term of imprisonment of at least 10 years. The currency structuring charges carry a possible five-year term of imprisonment. The indictment also includes a notice of forfeiture. Some of the assets identified in the indictment already have been seized by the United States in civil forfeiture actions over the course of the investigation, to include approximately 46 acres in Bexar County, a condo on South Padre Island, a 2005 Pilatus airplane, and residences in Hidalgo and Hays counties. The investigation leading to the indictment has been conducted by the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force in Brownsville, San Antonio, Houston, Corpus Christi, and New York and has included agents and officers with HSI, DEA, IRS-CI, FBI, and the Texas Attorney General’s Office. The United States government also acknowledges with gratitude the significant assistance received from the government of Mexico in the course of this investigation, including through sharing evidence and expertise. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Charles Lewis, Julie K. Hampton, and Jody Young. An indictment is a formal accusation of criminal conduct, not evidence. A defendant is presumed innocent unless and until convicted through due process of law.
corruption WICHITA—A former officer of the Wichita Police Department has been sentenced to a year on federal probation after pleading guilty in a scheme to pay a bribe as part of an unsuccessful effort to keep from losing her job, U.S. Attorney Barry Grissom. Former officer Joletta Vallejo, 35, Wichita, Kansas, pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud. Vallejo was employed by the police department from January 9, 2006 to August 24, 2012. In her plea, she admitted that on October 16, 2011, two citizens approached her to make a report that they were victims of an aggravated robbery, aggravated kidnaping, aggravated battery, and attempted first-degree murder. Vallejo did not follow the police department’s policies in responding and filing their complaints. As a result of her failure to follow department policies, Vallejo was investigated by the police department’s Professional Standards Bureau. When she was interviewed, she lied to the investigators. When she became aware she was going to be fired, she and co-defendant Patrick Melendrez devised a scheme to attempt to keep her job. On August 22, 2012, Vallejo created a Google Voice number in the name of Melendrez. They used that number to call and text one of the citizens to offer him money to recant the statements he had made to police about Vallejo’s conduct. The citizen’s response was part of an undercover investigation. Co-defendant Patrick Melendrez was sentenced to two years on probation. Co-defendant Courtney Foster is awaiting trial. Grissom commended the Wichita Police Department, the FBI, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Debra Barnett for their work on the case.
corruption COVINGTON, KY—The former superintendent for the Dayton Independent School District has admitted in federal court to embezzling school funds during his tenure. William Rye, 65, of Wilder, Kentucky, pleaded guilty today to one count of embezzlement. Rye waived his right to be indicted by a federal grand jury and pleaded guilty to the embezzlement charge brought by U.S. Attorney Kerry B. Harvey. In the course of his guilty plea, Rye admitted that, between 2004 and 2012, he embezzled approximately $193,149.22 from the Dayton Independent School District while serving as school superintendent. This case is eligible for federal prosecution because the Dayton School District annually receives in excess of $10,000 in federal funds. Kerry B. Harvey, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky, and Perrye Turner, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation, jointly made the announcement today. The investigation was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant U.S. Attorney Laura K. Voorhees represents the US. Attorney’s Office in this case. Rye is currently scheduled to appear for sentencing in Covington on April 22 at 11:00 a.m. Rye faces a maximum prison sentence of 10 years. However, any sentence would be imposed by the court after consideration of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and the federal statutes governing the imposition of sentences.
corruption Kenneth Lee, 53, of Nashville, Tennessee, was sentenced yesterday in U.S. District Court to 12 months and a day in prison, followed by one year of supervised release, for honest services mail fraud, announced David Rivera, U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Tennessee. Lee was indicted by a federal grand jury on March 1, 2012, and charged with extortion and mail fraud arising from his solicitation of payment from a woman in exchange for not arresting her. Lee pleaded guilty on July 29, 2012, to honest services mail fraud. “Law enforcement officers who choose to step across the line can expect to face federal prosecution and time in federal prison,” said U.S. Attorney David Rivera. “The honest, hard-working men and women of the greater law enforcement community are never tolerable of those who violate their oath and abuse their power.” According to the testimony at the plea hearing, on August 17, 2011, while employed as a Nolensville Police officer, Lee stopped a woman for a suspected traffic violation. After learning that she did not have a driver’s license, Lee told her he would not arrest her if she paid him $200. Lee also acknowledged that he subsequently received three separate money orders totaling $200. In imposing the sentence, Chief U.S. District Judge William J. Haynes, Jr. stated that he was troubled that the victim of the crime was poor and that a child was present when the defendant asked for money in lieu of arresting the victim. The case was investigated by the FBI and the United States Postal Inspection Service and prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Scarlett Singleton and Jimmie Lynn Ramsaur.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—Lorraine Dispaldo, 58, of Philadelphia, was sentenced today to 18 months in prison for her role in a fraud conspiracy with then-Philadelphia Traffic Court Judge Robert Mulgrew. Dispaldo pleaded guilty to a total of 36 counts including conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud, mail fraud, wire fraud, filing false personal income tax returns, and bankruptcy fraud. Dispaldo and Mulgrew, who is awaiting sentencing, carried out a scheme to defraud the Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development (DCED). U.S. District Court Judge C. Darnell Jones, II also ordered restitution of $120,865, a $3,600 special assessment, and three years of supervised release. Dispaldo helped orchestrate the scheme to fraudulently receive and misuse Pennsylvania state grant funds awarded to non-profit groups. Between 1996 and 2008, the DCED awarded hundreds of thousands of dollars in grants to two community groups with which Mulgrew and Dispaldo were associated. DCED awarded approximately $397,000 in grants to the Community to Police Communications (CPC) to be used to purchase communications equipment for the police and to purchase materials to secure vacant lots and buildings for the protection of the police. Dispaldo signed the CPC grant contracts with DCED. Between 1997 and 2007 DCED also awarded approximately $460,000 in grants to the Friends of Dickinson Square (FDS) to be used for the maintenance of Dickinson Square at 4th and Tasker Streets and the surrounding neighborhood. Dispaldo’s codefendant, Mulgrew, signed the FDS grant contracts with DCED. Dispaldo admitted that the grant contracts she submitted misrepresented how the funds would be used. She admitted that, instead of using grant funds exclusively for materials and equipment, as agreed, she instead paid tens of thousands of dollars in CPC and FDS grant funds to Mulgrew’s relatives and associates, including the teenage sons of his friends, and to the state representative’s lifelong friends. Dispaldo wrote over $104,000 of the almost $180,000 in impermissible payments made to persons for neighborhood revitalization “work.” While there were several decent gardens built, some trees planted and much landscaping material purchased, for the most part the activities undertaken primarily served as a “constituent service” clean-up-the-neighborhood-arm for the representative’s benefit, easy money for favored friends and relatives, a summer make-work program to benefit the teenage sons of Mulgrew’s neighborhood and childhood friends, and some work on private property. To mask the fact that grant funds were being used improperly, Dispaldo falsified her five CPC “close out” reports sent to DCED by concealing most of the $104,000 in payments she made to persons from CPC funds and FDS funds during 2005 through September 2010. At times, Dispaldo submitted to DCED inaccurate IRS forms 1099, which document payments to persons, and at other times failed to prepare the forms, as required by law. Dispaldo also improperly paid almost $13,000 in CPC funds to the Representative’s office cleaner and improperly used $4,600 in CPC grant funds over the years to pay for her personal cell phone. To conceal the improper payments Dispaldo made to persons, she also submitted to DCED staggering numbers of duplicate phone invoices. For example, she sent in $91,500 worth of receipts in the close-out report for the third grant in the amount of $90,000, but $41,640 of those receipts were already sent in with either the first or second grant close-out reports. In the fourth close-out report, Dispaldo sent in $87,394 in receipts to satisfy the $50,000 grant, but $46,156 of those were previously sent to the state. Dispaldo filed false personal income tax returns for tax years 2006 through 2009, and concealed her true income for 2008 and 2009 in a 2010 bankruptcy filing. The case was investigated by the Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Paul L. Gray.
corruption RAFAEL DOBARD, age 39, and QUINCY JONES, age 33, both New Orleans Police Department (NOPD) narcotics detectives, were indicted today by a federal grand jury for charges of conspiracy, wire fraud, and theft and bribery concerning programs receiving federal funds, announced U.S. Attorney Kenneth Allen Polite, Jr. According to the indictment, DOBARD and JONES conspired to enrich themselves and others by obtaining NOPD confidential informant funds by fraud and by corruptly making payments to other officers in their unit. The indictment also states that DOBARD and JONES conspired to commit wire fraud by submitting NOPD timesheets for times during which they were working non-NOPD detail jobs. DOBARD has served as an NOPD officer for eight years, and JONES has served for 11 years. Both officers were most recently assigned as detectives to NOPD’s Fourth District Narcotics Unit. U.S. Attorney Kenneth Allen Polite, Jr., reiterated that, at this time, the charges in the indictment are merely charges, and that the guilt of the defendants must be proven beyond a reasonable doubt. The case has been investigated jointly by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the NOPD Public Integrity Bureau and will be prosecuted by Special Assistant United States Attorney Michael Redmann, who is assigned to the U.S. Attorney’s Office from the Orleans Parish District Attorney’s Office, and Assistant United States Attorney Mark Miller.
corruption The United States Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania announced today that a second superseding indictment has been returned against former State Senator Raphael J. Musto, Pennsylvania 14th Senatorial District. This new indictment amends previous charges brought against Senator Musto, who is currently scheduled for trial on January 6, 2014. According to United States Attorney Peter J. Smith, Senator Musto, age 85, of Pittston, was originally charged in an indictment in November 2011. Those charges alleged that Senator Musto accepted $25,000 cash payment from a construction contractor whom had developed various properties in Lackawanna and Luzerne Counties. Senator Musto accepted the $25,000 in cash, as well as other things of value from the contractor, as part of a stream of benefits designed to secure Senator Musto’s continued support of various construction projects that were to the financial benefit of the company. In addition, Senator Musto was alleged to have accepted thousands of dollars in cash from another individual affiliated with Northeast Pennsylvania municipal authorities. That cash payment was accepted by Senator Musto as a reward for prior official action taken by the senator where he assisted the municipal authorities obtain loans and grants. In addition, Senator Musto accepted these funds intending to be influenced in his future official decisions. In October 2012, the original indictment was superseded by a grand jury to include two new charges of public corruption. In 2006, Senator Musto is alleged to have accepted $1,000 and other benefits from an individual affiliated with a municipality in return for his assistance with passing through a loan application for the municipality. Senator Musto is alleged to have done the same, for the same individual, in 2008, again in return for his assistance with the passage of a loan application for local municipalities. The indictment returned Wednesday amended portions of this indictment to include a broader array of things of value provided to Senator Musto and changed one of the charges in the indictment. In October 2012, attorneys for Senator Musto filed a motion with the court to dismiss the pending charges, or to indefinitely postpone the trial, because of Senator Musto’s physical health. The government objected to this request and Senior United States District Court Judge A. Richard Caputo agreed. The defense appealed this decision to the Third Circuit Court of Appeals. The appeals court denied the appeal, and on October 22, 2013, the case was returned to Judge Caputo who scheduled it for trial on January 6, 2014. On November 15, 2013, Senator Musto filed a renewed motion with the court to indefinitely postpone the trial. In this latest motion, the defense has identified the senator’s deteriorating physical health, as well was his mental competency to stand trial as reasons for the trial postponement. The United States has not agreed with this request and will be filing a response asking Judge Caputo to schedule a hearing where the defense will be required to prove that Senator Musto is unable to withstand trial and/or assist his attorneys. This case is part of an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Internal Revenue Service and is being prosecuted by a team of federal prosecutors led by Senior Litigation Counsel Gordon Zubrod and includes Assistant U.S. Attorneys William Houser, Michael Consiglio, Amy Phillips John Gurganus, and Criminal Division Chief Christian Fisanick. Indictments and criminal informations are only allegations. All persons charged are presumed to be innocent unless and until found guilty in court.
corruption KANSAS CITY, MO—Tammy Dickinson, United States Attorney for the Western District of Missouri, announced that the former court administrator for the Jackson County Circuit Court pleaded guilty in federal court today to a fraud scheme in which the government contends she embezzled nearly $140,000 from the circuit court. Teresa L. York, 58, of Blue Springs, waived her right to a grand jury and pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Howard F. Sachs to a federal information that charges her with mail fraud. York was appointed as the court administrator for the Jackson County Circuit Court in 2003 and resigned on July 2, 2012, after her embezzlement was discovered. York admitted that she engaged in a scheme to defraud the court between January 2009 and June 4, 2012, when she was placed on administrative leave. York used court-paid credit cards for her own personal use and purchased gift cards paid for by the court for her own personal use. According to the federal charging document, York also entered into a fraudulent contract for which no services were ever provided and which primarily benefited a person with whom she had a personal relationship. (York does not admit that conduct in today’s plea agreement, but the government reserves the right to present evidence of the contract fraud at her sentencing hearing.) As a result of York’s fraudulent actions, the government contends the total loss to the court was $139,536, while the intended loss was $142,278. Under the terms of today’s plea agreement, York must pay a $77,778 money judgment to the government in forfeiture, which represents her proceeds from the fraud scheme. Credit Card Scheme The Jackson County Circuit Court used credit cards to pay for court business, such as judicial travel and Missouri Bar expenses. These credit cards were collectively referred to as purchasing cards, or “P-cards.” As court administrator, York was an authorized user of the P-cards. York admitted that, from 2009 to 2012, she used the court’s P-card to purchase: $2,252 for gas for her personal driving, even though the court used mileage reimbursement forms to reimburse business driving; $9,532 for personal items and gift cards from Amazon; $6,446 for personal items such as clothing and makeup; $8,350 for personal meals; $487 for U.S. postal stamps for her personal use (the court uses metered postage for its mail, rather than stamps); $46,535 for Apple computer products (the court did not use a system compatible with Apple computers); $35,356 for gift cards. (York kept most of the gift cards, in the amount of $29,371, for her personal use and distributed $5,985 of these gift cards to court staff, on a merit system determined by her, as a type of bonus. The amounts of the cards were more than the Internal Revenue Service de minimis requirements for income reporting, however, the cards were not ever tracked or reported as income.) York also sold some computers owned by the court and kept the proceeds of the sales for her personal use. From January 2009 to June 4, 2012, York reimbursed the court a total of $1,660 for her personal expenditures. On June 7, 2012, after being confronted with her embezzlement scheme and placed on leave, York reimbursed the court an additional $2,742. York admitted that the approximate intended loss to the court from her personal use of the court’s credit cards is $77,778, while the actual loss to the court from that part of her scheme is $75,036. Contract Scheme Today’s information also alleges that York engaged in a fraudulent contract scheme. On September 30, 2010, York entered into a contract with CBDM Services LLC on behalf of the court, purportedly for workflow analysis (a business process review, a customer service evaluation, and an organizational redesign). The amount to be paid was originally $68,000, although it was later increased to $69,500. CBDM, which was not organized as a company at the time the contract was signed, was actually a front for the true contracting party, identified in court documents as “B.V.” York did not disclose to the court that B.V. would be receiving more than 90 percent of the payments made to CBDM or that she had a personal relationship with B.V. At York’s direction, the court paid CBDM a total of $64,500, although no usable work product or report was produced. Of the $64,500 paid by the court, the owner and only principal of CBDM (identified in court documents as “N.D.”) kept approximately $2,000 plus banking fees and sent the remainder, approximately $62,000, to B.V. Under federal statutes, York is subject to a sentence of up to 20 years in federal prison without parole, plus a fine up to $250,000. A sentencing hearing will be scheduled after the completion of a presentence investigation by the United States Probation Office. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Kathleen D. Mahoney. It was investigated by the FBI.
corruption BALTIMORE—U.S. District Judge William D. Quarles, Jr. sentenced Daren Kareem Gadsden, aka “D,” age 36, of Upper Marlboro, Maryland, to 286 months in prison, followed by five years of supervised release, for a conspiracy to steal almost $1.4 million from a Housing Authority of Baltimore City bank account. Judge Quarles also ordered Gadsden to forfeit $1,399,700. The sentence was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and Chief James W. Johnson of the Baltimore County Police Department. “This heavy sentence punishes Daren Gadsden for a brazen scheme to steal $1.4 million directly from the Baltimore City Housing Authority’s bank account,” said U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein. “Mr. Gadsden identified a vulnerability in the Housing Authority’s payment system and exploited it to steal taxpayer money intended to provide housing for low-income citizens.” According to information presented at his six-day trial, in 2009, Gadsden owned a property in Baltimore that was rented to a low income individual, whose rental payments were paid by the Housing Authority of Baltimore City, from its account directly to Gadsden’s bank account. Witnesses testified that in late 2009 and 2010, Gadsden made a series of inquiries to another bank where he had an account about how to use his computer to make electronic transfers to and from his account at that bank. In early 2010, the Housing Authority lost a few thousand dollars when a series of unauthorized electronic transfers debited funds out of the Housing Authority’s account and into Gadsden’s bank account. After being confronted by Housing Authority officials, Gadsden denied any wrongdoing but paid the Housing Authority $1,400 to cover some of its losses. Trial evidence showed that, at this point, Gadsden already had embarked on the second stage of his scheme, stealing during the spring of 2010 a marginally larger amount of Housing Authority funds—less than $8,000—this time not depositing into his own account but rather into an account in the name of a bogus entity Gadsden had created using another individual’s stolen identifiers. Gadsden effected the unauthorized electronic debits out of the Housing Authority’s bank account by using fake authorization forms and other fraudulent documents. The evidence showed that from early 2010 until at least September 17, 2010, Gadsden and several co-defendants then conspired to execute a larger scheme to defraud the Housing Authority. Specifically, Gadsden contacted Tyeast Brown to plan the fraud. Brown, in turn, contacted William Alvin Darden and Keith Eugene Daughtry, securing from Daughtry his Social Security card and birth certificate, which she provided to Darden. On May 19, 2010, Darden obtained a Maryland driver’s license with his photograph, but in Daughtry’s name, using Daughtry’s Social Security card and birth certificate as proof of identity. Darden then used the fraudulent license to open a bank account in the name of Keith Daughtry Contracting LLC. Gadsden had registered the entity with the state of Maryland, only a few days before, under a different, misspelled name. Darden also provided a mailing address for the company that was actually a mailbox rented by the conspirators at a commercial mailing store. According to witness testimony, beginning in July 2010, Gadsden and his co-conspirators electronically transferred nearly $1.4 million in funds from the Housing Authority’s bank account and into the Keith Daughtry Contracting LLC account. The conspirators then drained the stolen Housing Authority funds from the Keith Daughtry Contracting account by electronic transfers into accounts at other banks, in-person cash withdrawals, and from automated teller machines. In addition, the conspirators electronically transferred funds from the Keith Daughtry Contracting account onto debit cards in the names of other individuals. For example, Gadsden opened a debit account in the name of another individual, using that person’s identity information without their knowledge or permission. The evidence showed that Gadsden also tampered with evidence, deleting the contents of at least two e-mail accounts after he was contacted by an FBI special agent. The accounts were provided as the points of contact for certain debit cards Gadsden opened using stolen identity information. Judge Quarles also sentenced William Alvin Darden, age 46, of Washington, D.C., today to 30 months in prison, followed by three years of supervised release. Darden, who previously pleaded guilty to his role in the scheme, was also ordered to pay restitution of $1,399,700. Tyeast Brown, aka “Peaches,” age 42, of Suitland, Maryland; and Keith Eugene Daughtry, age 52, of Washington, D.C., also pleaded guilty and were sentenced to 36 months and 41 months in prison, respectively, and each was ordered to pay restitution of $1,399,700. Another co-conspirator, Marvin Moss, also pled guilty to his role in the scheme and was sentenced to 15 months in prison. Today’s announcement is part of efforts underway by President Obama’s Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force (FFETF), which was created in November 2009 to wage an aggressive, coordinated, and proactive effort to investigate and prosecute financial crimes. With more than 20 federal agencies, 94 U.S. attorneys’ offices, and state and local partners, it is the broadest coalition of law enforcement, investigatory, and regulatory agencies ever assembled to combat fraud. Since its formation, the task force has made great strides in facilitating increased investigation and prosecution of financial crimes; enhancing coordination and cooperation among federal, state, and local authorities; addressing discrimination in the lending and financial markets and conducting outreach to the public, victims, financial institutions, and other organizations. Over the past three fiscal years, the Justice Department has filed more than 10,000 financial fraud cases against nearly 15,000 defendants including more than 2,700 mortgage fraud defendants. For more information on the task force, visit www.stopfraud.gov. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein thanked the FBI and Baltimore County Police Department for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein praised Assistant U.S. Attorney Sujit Raman, who prosecuted the case.
corruption In Eagle Pass this morning, Federal Bureau of Investigation agents, along with Texas Department of Public Safety investigators, arrested 64-year-old Saul Lombrana, owner and operator of Fiesta Contractors based in Eagle Pass, in connection with an alleged bribery, kickback, and bid-rigging scheme, announced United States Attorney Robert Pitman and FBI Special Agent in Charge Armando Fernandez. Lombrana is charged by a federal grand jury indictment returned yesterday with one count of paying a bribe to an agent of an organization receiving federal funds. According to the indictment, in March 2011, Lombrana submitted a $14,500 bid to construct 155 linear feet of concrete drain swell on Rafael Street in Precinct 1. Lombrana was awarded the contract. The indictment alleges that Lombrana never constructed the concrete drain swell but requested and received full payment for the project. The indictment also alleges that in exchange for being awarded the contract, Lombrana paid a monetary bribe to a Maverick County employee. In addition to indicting Lombrana, the federal grand jury sitting in Del Rio returned separate indictments against 46–year-old Alejandro Wheeler, owner and operator of TVAW, a media outlet based in Eagle Pass, and 55– year-old Marcelo Alvarez, a surveyor and consultant in Maverick County. Alvarez surrendered to federal authorities this morning. Authorities are still looking for Wheeler. Wheeler is charged with one count of aiding and abetting paying a bribe to an agent of an organization receiving federal funds and one count of aiding and abetting theft concerning programs receiving federal funds. According to his indictment, in 2010 and 2011, Wheeler and Maverick County commissioners devised a scheme to have two contractors awarded Maverick County construction contracts. As part of the scheme, Wheeler allegedly received money from the contractors and the commissioners received bribes from the construction funds, as well as discounted campaign advertising and media time. Alvarez is charged with one count of paying a bribe to an agent of an organization receiving federal funds. According to his indictment, from 2010 to 2012, Alvarez corruptly paid money to Maverick County officials, including two county commissioners, in order to guarantee that engineering, project management and consulting services contracts valued at approximately $800,000 were awarded to a specific company. Alvarez, in turn, was designated as the Resident Project Representative on those projects and received payment for his services. Upon conviction each charge calls for up to 10 years in federal prison and a maximum $250,000 fine. This ongoing investigation is being conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Texas Department of Public Safety. Individuals who have first-hand information about corruption, fraud, or bribery related to Maverick County are urged to contact the FBI at (210) 225-6741. Assistant United States Attorneys Michael Galdo and Bryan Reeves are prosecuting this case on behalf of the government. An indictment is merely a charge and should not be considered as evidence of guilt. The defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty in a court of law.
corruption NEWARK, NJ—A former New Jersey (NJ) Transit official appeared in court today on charges she agreed to accept an $8,000 bribe in connection with a snow removal contract, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Donna Schiereck, 56, of Jackson, New Jersey, is charged by complaint with one count of agreeing to accept a bribe. Schiereck appeared this afternoon before U.S. Magistrate Judge James B. Clark, III in Newark federal court for an initial appearance. According to the complaint unsealed today: From September 2012 to December 2012, Schiereck was a supervisor at NJ Transit. During that same time period, Schiereck agreed to accept $8,000 in exchange for her assistance with securing a snow removal contract for a Lakewood, New Jersey company. The charge is punishable by a maximum potential penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford; and the New Jersey State Police, under the direction of Col. Joseph R. Fuentes, superintendent, for the investigation leading to today’s charge. He thanked the New Jersey Attorney General’s Office, under the direction of Acting Attorney General John Hoffman; and Elie Honig, director of the New Jersey Division of Criminal Justice, for their roles in this investigation. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Amy Luria of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division in Newark and Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael A. Monahan, the Deputy Chief of the Corruption Bureau, Division of Criminal Justice, in the New Jersey Office of the Attorney General.
corruption BALTIMORE—United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Secretary Gary D. Maynard of the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services; Baltimore City State’s Attorney Gregg Bernstein; Baltimore Police Commissioner Anthony W. Batts; and Prince George’s County Police Chief Mark A. Magaw announced that a federal superseding indictment was unsealed today charging 19 additional defendants, including 14 former and current correctional officers with the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services, with conspiring to operate the Black Guerilla Family (BGF) gang inside correctional facilities. All 19 defendants also are charged with conspiracy to distribute and possession with intent to distribute drugs; and six are charged with money laundering conspiracy. This brings to 44 the total number of alleged BGF gang members and associates charged in the case, including 27 correctional officers. Sixteen of the 25 defendants in the original indictment in April 2013 have pleaded guilty to racketeering conspiracy, including nine correctional officers, four inmates, and three drug suppliers. One defendant is deceased. Eight defendants charged with racketeering in April 2013 remain in the superseding indictment. This case was developed as a result of the efforts of the Maryland Prison Task Force, formed in 2011 with the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services; local, state, and federal law enforcement agencies; and prosecutors. The task force has met regularly for almost three years, generating recommendations to reform prison procedures and producing leads that have been pursued by state, local, and federal criminal investigators. “The new charges focus on criminal conduct that occurred prior to April 2013, adding 19 new defendants as a result of additional evidence that came to light during the ongoing investigation,” said U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein. “I want to thank Secretary Maynard and the many law-abiding employees of the Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services who have assisted in this investigation and are working to eliminate corruption in state correctional facilities.” “We are grateful to our federal law enforcement partners for their responsiveness, their good work, and their ongoing willingness to work with us as we root out corruption, improve security, and promote integrity at Maryland correctional institutions,” DPSCS Secretary Gary Maynard said. “While our work continues, those indicted out of the task force’s efforts do not represent the overwhelming majority of honest and hardworking correctional officers working every day to keep our institutions safe.” The superseding indictment and a search warrant affidavit were unsealed today upon the arrests of the defendants and the execution of 15 search warrants. Approximately 150 agents and officers assisted in the arrests and search warrants. The superseding indictment was returned on November 5, 2013, and remained under seal until after the warrants were executed this morning. The defendants charged in the superseding indictment are alleged to be members or associates of the BGF, a gang active in prisons throughout the United States. According to the indictment, BGF has been the dominant gang at the Baltimore City Detention Center (BCDC), and in several connected facilities, especially the Baltimore Central Booking Intake Center, the Women’s Detention Center (which houses many men), and in the Jail Industries Building. According to the affidavit, the BGF inmates and correctional officers operated a criminal organization within the prison facility, enabling them to make large amounts of money through drug trafficking, robbery, assault, extortion, bribery, witness retaliation, money laundering, and obstruction of justice. “Green Dot” cash cards routinely were used to transfer money. BGF members and associates used the money to bribe correctional officers and other employees at BCDC and related prison facilities to smuggle drugs, cell phones, and other contraband. Correctional officers arranged favored treatment and privileges for imprisoned BGF gang members, thwarted interdiction and law enforcement efforts against BGF inmates, and facilitated attacks on inmates in furtherance of BGF objectives. Gang members and associates extorted protection money from inmates who were non-members, often paid by relatives outside the jail. The correctional officers allegedly hid drugs and other contraband beneath clothing and inside body cavities when they entered the prison. The correctional officers also smuggled items in their shoes or in sandwiches they brought into the prison. BGF leaders used contraband cell phones to order drugs and other contraband and to coordinate gang activities. Court documents allege that BGF members recruited correctional officers through personal and often sexual relationships as well as bribes, and that some officers traded sex for money. Officers believed it was unlikely that they would be fired or face significant discipline even if they were caught smuggling contraband or fraternizing with inmates. The defendants face a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison on the racketeering and drug conspiracies. Thirteen of the defendants face a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison as well for conspiracy to commit money laundering. James Yarborough also faces five years in prison for possession with intent to distribute marijuana. Most of the defendants are expected to have initial appearances in U.S. District Court in Baltimore this afternoon. An indictment is not a finding of guilt. An individual charged by indictment is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty at some later criminal proceedings. The U.S. Attorney praised the FBI, the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services, the Baltimore Police Department, the Prince George’s County Police Department, the Maryland Prison Task Force, and the Baltimore City State’s Attorney’ Office for their work on the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant U.S. Attorneys Robert R. Harding and Ayn B. Ducao, who are prosecuting this Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force case. The U.S. Attorney also thanked the leaders of other agencies that have assisted the Maryland Prison Task Force, including Colonel Marcus L. Brown, Superintendent of the Maryland State Police; United States Marshal Johnny Hughes; Special Agent in Charge Karl C. Colder of the Drug Enforcement Administration-Washington Field Division; Tom Carr, Director of the Washington-Baltimore High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area; and Dave Engel, Executive Director of the Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center. The following 19 defendants are newly charged in the superseding indictment unsealed today. Inmates: Russell Carrington, a/k/ Rutt, age 33 Frederick Morrison, a/k/a Fry, age 29 Current and former correctional officers: Kevin Armstrong, age 26, of Gwynn Oak, Maryland Clarissa Clayton, age 24, of Brooklyn Park, Maryland Tanierdra Finch, age 26, of Baltimore Danielle Forrest, age 26 Aisha Fraction, age 25, Brooklyn Sean Graves, age 47, of Windsor Mill, Maryland Ricolle Hall, age 26, of Glen Burnie, Maryland Angela Johnson, age 34, of Baltimore Derrick Jones, age 41, of Aberdeen, Maryland Javonne Lunkin, age 28, of Baltimore Ashley Newton, age 30, Baltimore Travis Paylor, age 26, Baltimore Milshenna Peoples, age 29, of Baltimore Michelle Ricks, age 43, Edgewood, Maryland Other DPSCS employee: Michelle McNair, age 22, Baltimore Outside suppliers: Raylanair Reese, age 31 Linnard Wortham, a/k/a Stu, age 29, of Glen Burnie, Maryland The following eight defendants were charged in the original indictment and remain in the superseding indictment: Inmates: Jamar Anderson, a/k/a Hammer and Hamma Head, age 24, of Baltimore Derius Duncan, a/k/a D or Lil D, age 24, of Baltimore Joseph Young, a/k/a Monster, age 30, of Baltimore Current and former correctional officers: Antonia Allison, age 27; of Baltimore Ebonee Braswell, age 27; of Baltimore Chania Brooks, age 28, of Baltimore Tiffany Linder, age 27, of Baltimore Outside supplier: James Yarborough, a/k/a J.Y., age 27, of Baltimore The following 16 defendants were charged in the original indictment unsealed in April 2013 and have pleaded guilty to their participation in the racketeering conspiracy. Inmates: Tavon White, age 36, of Baltimore Steven Loney, age 24, of Baltimore Kenneth Parham, age 24, of Baltimore Jermaine McFadden, age 25, of Baltimore. Correctional officers: Kimberly Dennis, age 26, of Baltimore Jasmin Jones, a/k/a/ J.J., age 25, of Baltimore Taryn Kirkland, age 23, of Baltimore Katrina Laprade, a/k/a Katrina Lyons, age 31, of Baltimore Vivian Matthews, age 26, of Essex, Maryland Jennifer Owens, a/k/a/ O and J.O., age 31, of Randallstown Adrena Rice, age 25, of Baltimore Katera Stevenson, a/k/a KK, age 25, of Baltimore Jasmine Thornton, a/k/a J.T., age 26, of Glen Burnie Outside suppliers: Tyesha Mayo, age 30; of Baltimore Tyrone Thompson, age 36, of Baltimore Teshawn Pinder, age 24, of Baltimore Ralph Timmons, Jr., age 35, of Baltimore, was also charged in the original indictment and is deceased.
corruption KANSAS CITY, MO—Tammy Dickinson, United States Attorney for the Western District of Missouri, announced that the former treasurer of both the Wellington Napoleon Fire Protection District and Special Road District pleaded guilty in federal court today to a fraud scheme in which he embezzled more than $1.5 million from the two districts. Leland Ray Kolkmeyer, 58, of Wellington, Missouri, waived his right to a grand jury and pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Gary A. Fenner to a federal information that charges him with two counts of mail fraud. Kolkmeyer was appointed as treasurer of the road district in 1996. Kolkmeyer was first elected treasurer of the fire district in 1997. He resigned from both positions on February 25, 2013. The offices of both the fire district and the road district are located in Wellington. Road District Fraud Scheme Kolkmeyer admitted that he stole approximately $900,000 from the road district from August 1998 to February 12, 2013. Kolkmeyer made checks payable from the road district’s bank account to himself and others for his own benefit without the knowledge, authorization or consent of the road district. The government alleges that Kolkmeyer fraudulently transferred $939,485 from the road district’s bank account to his own bank account or to pay bills on his behalf. Kolkmeyer, in his position as treasurer of the road district, made false statements and material omissions to the Special Road District Board concerning the checks that were made payable to himself and to others on his behalf. Fire District Fraud Scheme Kolkmeyer also admitted that he stole more than $500,000 from the fire district from August 1998 to February 17, 2013. The government alleges that Kolkmeyer fraudulently transferred $590,674 from the fire district bank accounts to his own bank account or to pay bills on his behalf. Kolkmeyer, in his position as treasurer of the fire district, made false statements and material omissions to the Fire Protection District Board concerning the checks that were made payable to himself and to others on his behalf. The federal information requires Kolkmeyer to forfeit to the government $1,530,159, which represents the total amount he embezzled from the two districts. Under federal statutes, Kolkmeyer is subject to a sentence of up to 40 years in federal prison without parole, plus a fine up to $500,000 and an order of restitution. A sentencing hearing will be scheduled after the completion of a presentence investigation by the United States Probation Office. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Paul S. Becker. It was investigated by the FBI. This news release, as well as additional information about the office of the United States Attorney for the Western District of Missouri, is available online at http://www.justice.gov/usao/mow/index.html.
corruption WASHINGTON—Congressman Trey Radel, 37, pled guilty today in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia to a misdemeanor charge of possession of cocaine, announced U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen, Jr.; Valerie Parlave, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office; and Karl C. Colder, Special Agent in Charge of the Washington Division Office of the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA). Radel, who represents the 19th Congressional District of Florida, appeared before the Honorable Senior Judge Robert S. Tignor. As a first-time offender, Radel was able to ask the court, under District of Columbia law, to defer entering a judgment of guilty and place him on probation. Judge Tignor placed Radel on one year of probation. If the probation is successfully completed, the court could then dismiss the case without an adjudication of guilt. According to a statement of offense submitted as part of the plea, Radel came to the attention of the FBI and DEA in the fall of 2013, during an investigation into cocaine trafficking in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area. Agents learned that Radel would purchase cocaine for his personal use and sometimes share it with others. The statement of offense says that, on October 29, 2013, Radel met with an undercover police officer at a restaurant in the Dupont Circle area of Washington, D.C. At this time, Radel agreed to buy about 3.5 grams of cocaine from the undercover officer. He and the undercover officer went outside, and Radel handed over $260. The undercover officer provided Radel with a package of cocaine. Federal agents then approached Radel and the cocaine was recovered. Radel agreed to speak with the agents about what had taken place and invited them to his apartment. There, he voluntarily admitted that he had purchased the cocaine. He also retrieved and provided to the agents a vial of cocaine that he had in his apartment. “Today’s guilty plea emerges from a broader narcotics investigation that brought to light information that a sitting Member of Congress was routinely using and buying cocaine. Once this information was confirmed, law enforcement could not ignore this illegal conduct,” said U.S. Attorney Machen. “Mr. Radel’s guilty plea is similar to those entered every year by hundreds of other drug offenders in the District of Columbia who possess illegal narcotics. We appreciate his willingness to promptly accept responsibility for his conduct.” “Today’s announcement demonstrates that illegal drugs continue to be present in our communities and do not discriminate by age, gender, socio-economic group, or profession,” said Assistant Director in Charge Parlave. “Along with our law enforcement partners at the DEA, the FBI remains focused on stopping the movement and sale of drugs on our neighborhood streets.” “Drug traffickers and abusers respect no boundaries or limits and our neighborhoods and communities often pay the price,” said Special Agent in Charge Colder. “DEA and our law enforcement partners will continue to relentlessly pursue these drug trafficking networks and their criminal associates at every level. They pose a direct threat to the safety and security of our community here in the D.C. metro area. We want young people to see the price people pay for drug abuse and trafficking in cases like this so they will resolve to live drug-free lives.” In announcing the plea, U.S. Attorney Machen, Assistant Director in Charge Parlave, and Special Agent in Charge Colder commended the work of those who investigated the case. They also expressed appreciation for the work of the Fairfax County, Virginia Police Department and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia. Finally, they commended those who handled the case from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, including Assistant U.S. Attorney Nihar R. Mohanty, who is prosecuting the matter.
corruption EVANSVILLE—U.S. Attorney Joseph H. Hogsett announced today the filing of federal charges against Melissa Isaacs, age 49, of Spencer County. According to a four-count indictment returned by a grand jury this week, Isaacs allegedly used her position with the North Spencer County School Corporation to engage in a four-year scheme to defraud Hoosier taxpayers of approximately $63,000 in school funds. “When Hoosiers steal from Hoosiers, we all lose—no matter if the theft takes place in a back alley or a back office,” Hogsett said. “That is why, together with our law enforcement partners, we are committed to doing all we can to hold accountable those who seek to enrich themselves by embracing a culture of corruption.” The indictment alleges that Isaacs served as the Extracurricular Treasurer for the North Spencer County School Corporation from June 5, 2007 through February 25, 2013. During that period of time, the defendant collected and distributed funds for a variety of school programs, including school lunches, textbook rental fees, and the athletic fund, as well as funds for other extracurricular programs operating within the school system. Isaacs allegedly used her position to embezzle, steal, and intentionally misapply funds from these programs from July 2009 until February of this year. This included the alleged theft of textbook rental fees, extracurricular funds, and school lunch fees, as well as fraudulent claims for compensation. The indictment provides a detailed breakdown of the alleged thefts by year, which include: 2009-10 school year: $19,368.91 2010-11 school year: $13,703.74 2011-12 school year: $12,542.37 2012-13 school year: $18,241.62 Hogsett said this case was the result of outstanding law enforcement work by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Indiana State Board of Accounts, and the Spencer County Prosecutor’s Office. All these agencies are partners in the U.S. Attorney’s Public Integrity Working Group, which was launched in April 2012 with the stated purpose of aggressively investigating allegations of public fraud, waste, and abuse by public officials in Indiana. Hoosiers with information on public corruption are encouraged to contact the U.S. Attorney’s Office at (317) 229-2443. According to Senior Litigation Counsel Bradley A. Blackington, who is prosecuting the case for the government, Isaacs could face up to 10 years in federal prison on each count if convicted, as well as significant fines and federally supervised release at the end of her prison term. An indictment is only a charge and is not evidence of guilt. A defendant is presumed innocent and is entitled to a fair trial at which the government must prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption NATCHEZ, MS—Paul Winfield, former mayor of Vicksburg, Mississippi, was sentenced in U.S. District Court today to 25 months in federal prison, followed by three years of supervised release, for bribery in connection with a pre-event disaster contract for the city of Vicksburg, announced U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis and FBI Special Agent in Charge Daniel McMullen. Winfield was also ordered to pay a $5,000 fine and forfeit $7,000, the amount paid to him as a bribe. In early 2012, while serving as the mayor of Vicksburg, Winfield met with a Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) source, where they discussed pre-event disaster contracts for the city of Vicksburg. On July 18, 2012, Winfield again met with the FBI source at a restaurant in Jackson. After dinner, Winfield and the FBI source met inside the source’s vehicle, and the FBI source asked Winfield what would need to be done in order for the source’s company to get the pre-event disaster contract. Winfield responded “Ten” and held up 10 fingers, signifying $10,000. The FBI source asked Winfield if the FBI source could pay $5,000 now and $5,000 once the contract was awarded. Winfield agreed, and the FBI source paid Winfield $5,000 cash in the vehicle at that time. On August 17, 2012, the FBI source met with Winfield in Natchez, Mississippi, where he paid Winfield an additional $2,000 in cash and asked if another $3,000 would be enough. The source then promised Winfield another $3,000 after the pre-event disaster contract was awarded. As part of his plea agreement, Winfield agreed to forfeit the bribe money he accepted, and he also agreed to neither run for elected public office nor apply for or be employed by any governmental entity in the future. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Mike Hurst.
corruption CHARLESTON, WV—Former Mingo County Prosecuting Attorney C. Michael Sparks entered a guilty plea in federal court in connection with a conspiracy to deprive a Mingo County resident of his constitutional rights, U.S. Attorney Booth Goodwin announced today. Sparks, 44, is the third former Mingo County official to plead guilty to federal charges involving a scheme to cover up evidence of illegal drug use and other misconduct by late Mingo County Sheriff Eugene Crum. U.S. Attorney Booth Goodwin said, “Prosecutors are the representatives of the people. Instead of advancing the interests of the good people of Mingo County, Mr. Sparks chose to roll over for the special interests of a corrupt political faction.” Earlier this year, a Mingo County drug defendant, identified as G.W., began to provide the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) with information about misconduct by then Sheriff Crum, including illegal drug use and election law violations. Crum learned that G.W., along with G.W.’s attorney, were providing information about Crum to the FBI. Crum and other Mingo elected officials, including Sparks and former Mingo Co. Circuit Judge Michael Thornsbury, carried out a plan to protect Crum and to stop G.W. from informing to the FBI. They arranged to offer G.W. a favorable plea deal if he would fire his attorney, identified as C.W., who was assisting G.W.’s communication with federal authorities, and replace him with an attorney chosen by Crum and the other elected officials. After G.W. fired C.W., Mr. Sparks entered into a plea agreement with G.W. under which three of five criminal counts pending against G.W. were dismissed. As part of the plea agreement, Mr. Sparks also accepted a forfeiture from G.W. of $10,000, which was $10,000 less than the forfeiture Mr. Sparks originally intended to seek from G.W. Moreover, as part of the agreement, Mr. Sparks agreed to recommend that the sentences for the two counts to which G.W. would plead guilty would run concurrently rather than consecutively. Mr. Sparks negotiated this plea agreement in part with former Mingo County Commissioner David Baisden himself and, at Baisden’s behest, entered into a plea agreement more favorable that he otherwise would have. Mr. Sparks did these acts knowing that a more favorable agreement for G.W. was a necessary part of the scheme to coerce G.W. into firing C.W. in order to protect the Sheriff. Because Mr. Sparks was the county’s prosecuting attorney, his cooperation in this regard was necessary to the scheme’s success. In the face of this coercion, G.W. fired his attorney, which the Mingo officials involved believed would protect Crum from federal investigation and public embarrassment. United States District Court Judge Thomas E. Johnston presided over today’s plea hearing and will sentence Sparks on February 24, 2014. Sparks faces a year in prison. Sparks previously resigned as Prosecuting Attorney of Mingo County in late October. As part of his federal guilty plea, Sparks' plea agreement with the Office of the U.S. Attorney required him to resign as Mingo County’s Prosecuting Attorney and never seek elected office again. Sparks is also required to voluntarily surrender his license to practice law in every state in which he holds a law license and withdraw his opposition to the petition seeking the immediate suspension of his law license in the state of West Virginia. Sparks also agrees not to contest disbarment proceedings in any state in which he is licensed to practice law. Former Mingo County Circuit Judge Michael Thornsbury, 57, previously pleaded guilty in October for his role in the scheme to protect Crum and deprive G.W. of his rights. Thornsbury faces up to 10 years in prison when he is sentenced on January 13, 2014. Former County Commissioner David Baisden pleaded guilty to an unrelated federal charge in connection with a scheme to illegally extort a discount from a Mingo County tire store. Baisden, 66, resigned from the Mingo County Commission in October. Baisden faces up to 20 years in prison when he is sentenced on January 14, 2014. The investigation is being conducted by the FBI and the West Virginia State Police. Counsel to the United States Attorney Steven Ruby and Assistant United States Attorney Haley Bunn are handling the prosecution.
corruption DALLAS—A detective who worked in the Dallas Police Department’s (DPD) Vice Unit, Jose Luis Bedoy, 39, of Dallas, was arrested this morning by special agents with the FBI on federal felony charges of obstruction of official proceedings and obstruction of the due administration of justice, as outlined in an indictment that was returned earlier this week by a federal grand jury in Dallas and was just unsealed. Bedoy made his initial appearance before U.S. Magistrate Judge David L. Horan this afternoon and was released on conditions. Today’s announcement was made by U.S. Attorney Sarah R. Saldaña of the Northern District of Texas. Specifically, the indictment charges Bedoy with three counts of obstruction of an official proceeding and one count of obstruction of due administration of justice. According to the indictment, from November 28, 2007 through July 2013, Bedoy was assigned to the DPD’s Vice Unit. In early 2009, after a DPD Vice raid on an adult entertainment establishment, Bedoy met a female prostitute who worked at the establishment. Later, when she tried to reclaim property DPD seized during the raid, Bedoy assisted her. Bedoy later contacted her and expressed an interest in seeing her and wanting a massage from her. They began communicating on a weekly basis, and Bedoy began giving her advice on the adult entertainment establishments at which she could work. Bedoy later met her for a massage, and during the massage, he explained how to screen her clients to avoid being arrested. Bedoy and the female began an intimate relationship. From 2008 until 2013, while they were engaged in a sexual relationship, Bedoy provided law enforcement-sensitive information to her about DPD Vice Unit prostitution raids and other enforcement actions. In January 2013, Bedoy met her at her residence and showed her a DPD investigative case file targeting Wet, an adult entertainment establishment, which he had brought with him. Two days later, Wet was raided, and after the raid, Bedoy arranged to meet her at her residence. In early 2013, according to the indictment, the Coppell Police Department began an investigation of Studio Serene, an adult entertainment establishment, and enlisted the help of the DPD Vice Unit in its investigation. In March 2013, Bedoy advised the female that Studio Serene was being targeted and advised her against working there. Bedoy told her that the information was only for her benefit, but she relayed the information to Studio Serene’s owner. Based on that information, Studio Serene closed for a number of days. After it reopened, on April 25, 2013, the Coppell Police Department and the DPD Vice Unit raided Studio Serene. While law enforcement conducted interviews of individuals working at Studio Serene, members of the Coppell Police Department were informed that a DPD Vice Unit detective, named “Jose,” had “tipped off” the business weeks earlier about the pending raid. The phone number provided for Jose matched Bedoy’s contact information on his DPD personnel file. Based on the information received by the Coppell Police Department, an FBI and federal grand jury investigation of Bedoy were initiated. According to the indictment, on multiple occasions in June 2013, Bedoy instructed the female on how to avoid being arrested while using Backpage.com for prostitution. He advised her to not only change her phone number every two weeks but also advised her of the best days and times to work and the best days and times to avoid. On June 25, 2013, Bedoy contacted her to ensure that she was not working Backpage.com during that week because DPD Vice was “working Backpage” that week. In fact, that same day, DPD Vice Unit and the FBI conducted a joint operation that was designed to deter prostitution by directing enforcement efforts at Internet-based prostitution. Bedoy was listed on the DPD Vice Unit roster of operation participants. On July 11, 2013, the FBI advised Bedoy and other DPD Vice Unit detectives that a federal grand jury investigation had been initiated and that the FBI was attempting to locate this female, as well as another woman, based on information that they were receiving law enforcement-sensitive information from a police officer. The indictment alleges that on July 8, 2013, Bedoy told the female, a witness in the investigation, to leave Dallas and move somewhere else and to never give her real name if pulled over in a traffic stop by law enforcement July 11, 2013, Bedoy instructed the female to not let anyone into her apartment to talk to her, including FBI agents July 14, 2013, Bedoy told the female to get rid of her cell phone so that there would not be a connection between them July 23, 2013, Bedoy falsely told FBI agents that he never gave sensitive law enforcement information to this female An indictment is an accusation by a federal grand jury, and a defendant is entitled to the presumption of innocence unless proven guilty. If convicted, however, each count of obstruction of an official proceeding carries a maximum statutory penalty of 20 years in federal prison and the obstruction of due administration of justice count carries a maximum statutory penalty of 10 years in federal prison. Each count of conviction also carries a maximum statutory fine of $250,000. The investigation is being conducted by the FBI and the DPD’s Public Integrity Unit. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Errin Martin and Mindy Sauter are prosecuting.
corruption WASHINGTON—Two former police officers with the Police of Puerto Rico were sentenced to serve 63 and 60 months in prison for attempting to extort a defendant and soliciting bribe payments of $50,000. Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodriguez of the District of Puerto Rico made the announcement. Abimael Arroyo-Cruz, 30, of Rio Grande, Puerto Rico, was convicted by a jury on May 29, 2013, of conspiracy to commit federal programs bribery, bribery, conspiracy to commit extortion, and attempted extortion. Josue Becerril-Ramos, 36, of Carolina, Puerto Rico, pleaded guilty to all four counts on May 17, 2013, midway through his trial. Arroyo was sentenced to serve 63 months in prison, and Becerril was sentenced to serve 60 months in prison. Arroyo and Becerril arrested eight individuals for possessing unregistered firearms and marijuana on August 2, 2012. The officers then solicited from one defendant a bribe payment of $50,000 to have his case dismissed. Beginning on September 11, 2012, both officers spoke with the defendant multiple times over the telephone, discussing payment details and strategies for dismissing the defendant’s case. Arroyo and Becerril collected approximately $35,000 of the $50,000 demanded from the defendant in two different payment installments. Unbeknownst to the officers, however, the individuals who dropped off the payments were cooperating with federal law enforcement. In exchange for the bribes, Arroyo and Becerril devised a plan whereby the officers would misidentify a co-defendant in court, leading to the dismissal of the defendant’s case. When asked under oath at the preliminary hearing to identify the defendant, Arroyo instead identified a co-defendant. Arroyo confirmed to the defendant following the hearing that he deliberately misidentified the co-defendant as part of the plan to have the defendant’s case dismissed. The case was investigated by the FBI’s San Juan Field Office. The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Menaka Kalaskar and Marquest J. Meeks of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Timothy Henwood of the District of Puerto Rico.
corruption WICHITA, KS—A Wichita man has been sentenced to two years of federal probation for helping a former officer of the Wichita Police Department in a scheme to bribe a witness in hopes of keeping the officer from losing her job, U.S. Attorney Barry Grissom said today. He already spent five months in jail. Patrick Melendrez, 40, Wichita, Kansas, pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud. In his plea, he admitted that co-defendant Joletta Vallejo developed a plan and asked him to assist her in bribing a witness to recant statements the witness made about Vallejo to the police department’s Professional Standards Bureau. Vallejo was employed by the Wichita Police Department from January 9, 2006 to August 24, 2012. On October 16, 2011, two citizens approached her to report they were victims of an aggravated robbery, aggravated kidnaping, aggravated battery, and attempted first-degree murder. Vallejo did not follow the police department’s policies in responding and filing their complaints. As a result, Vallejo was investigated by the police department’s Professional Standards Bureau. When she was interviewed, she lied to investigators. When she became aware she was going to be fired, she and Melendrez devised a scheme to attempt to keep her job. On August 22, 2012, Vallejo created a Google Voice number in the name of Melendrez. On August 22 and 23, that number was used to call and text a witness to persuade him to recant his statements to the Professional Standards Bureau. In return, Vallejo and Melendrez offered the witness money. What Vallejo and Melendrez did not know is the witness was cooperating with an undercover investigation into the bribery attempt. Co-defendant Vallejo is set for sentencing December 2. Grissom commended the Wichita Police Department, the FBI and Assistant U.S. Attorney Debra Barnett for their work on the case.
corruption GULFPORT, MS—Federal and state grand juries returned indictments this week following a joint investigation into the activities of the Mississippi Department of Marine Resources (DMR) and a $3 million grant issued to the city of D’Iberville, announced U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis, FBI Special Agent in Charge Daniel McMullen, Mississippi State Auditor Stacey Pickering, Second Circuit District Attorney Joel Smith, and Nineteenth Circuit District Attorney Tony Lawrence. The State Auditor’s Office also issued civil demands totaling more than $1 million. William W. Walker, 68, of Ocean Springs; Scott J. Walker, 34, of Ocean Springs; Sheila Tina Shumate, 52, of Saucier; and Joseph C. Zeigler, Jr., 66, of Gulfport, have been named in a five-count federal indictment, returned on Tuesday, November 5, 2013, charging conspiracy to commit federal program fraud, federal program fraud, conspiracy to commit mail fraud, and mail fraud involving DMR and the Mississippi Marine Resources Foundation. Scott J. Walker is also named in a separate federal indictment along with Michael Janus, age 47, of Biloxi, charging conspiracy to commit program fraud, program fraud, bribery in connection with a federal program and money laundering. The indictment alleges that Walker and Janus caused a false invoice in the amount of $180,000 to be submitted to the city of D’Iberville for payment of consulting services. A Harrison County grand jury returned indictments this week against Sheila Tina Shumate, Leslie Young Gollott, Susan Perkins, Jere Grant Larsen, Jr., and Kerwin Cuevas for multiple counts of fraud and embezzlement that allegedly occurred during their employment with the Department of Marine Resources. In addition, the Mississippi State Auditor’s Office issued demands against 10 individuals as part of this investigation totaling $1,022,308.55. The individual demands are listed below: William Walker: $362,689.14 Joseph Ziegler: $258,268.75 Sheila Shumate: $127,608.57 Leslie Gollott: $117,593.10 Susan Perkins: $30,959.34 Grant Larson: $1,342.08 Kerwin Cuevas: $108,420.70 Walter Chataginer: $1,279.85 Kerry Endris: $13,020.66 Samantha Hebert: $1,126.36 “The indictments and demands announced today are one step toward restoring the trust of taxpayers, but they do not close the investigation,” State Auditor Stacey Pickering said. “As alleged in the indictments, these men and women abused their positions, stole from the taxpayers of Mississippi, and they will be held accountable for their actions. I appreciate the hard work and cooperation from the local, state, and federal agencies involved including our special agents; District Attorneys Joel Smith and Tony Lawrence; Gregory Davis, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District; and Daniel McMullen, Special Agent in Charge for the Federal Bureau of Investigation.” The public is reminded that an indictment is an allegation that a defendant has committed a crime. All defendants are presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, and Michael B. Steinbach, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI), Miami Field Office, announce that Manuel L. Maroño, 41, the former mayor of the city of Sweetwater, and Jorge L. Forte, 41, a lobbyist, both of Miami, pled guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit honest services wire fraud for their participation in a scheme to personally benefit through the use of Maroño’s position as mayor of Sweetwater. Sentencing has been scheduled for January 23, 2014, at 10:00 a.m. before U.S. District Judge William J. Zloch. At sentencing, Maroño and Forte face a maximum statutory sentence of five years in prison. U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer stated, “Today, the former mayor of Sweetwater admitted under oath in court that he sold the power granted to him by the people of Sweetwater. It is vitally important that the people of South Florida have confidence in their elected officials and know that any abuse of their trust will not be tolerated. I hope that today’s timely resolution and guilty plea will make others think twice before lining their pockets with the greed of corruption.” “Corrupt officials—either elected or appointed—are on notice; if they breach the public’s trust through stealing or accepting bribes in the course of their official duties, they will be vigorously investigated,” said Michael B. Steinbach, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Miami. “Public corruption remains a top priority for the FBI. We encourage anyone who may have information about corruption to come forward and report it. This information is vital to our work.” On October 17, 2013, Maroño and Forte were charged by way of information with one count of conspiracy to commit honest services wire fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. ' 371. According to the facts admitted at today’s guilty plea and publically available information, Maroño was the elected mayor of the city of Sweetwater. In his elected position, Maroño served as the chief executive officer of the city of Sweetwater and was responsible for the management and administration of the city government. Forte, a lifelong friend of Maroño, was a lobbyist and business partner of Maroño. Maroño and Forte admitted today that beginning in late November 2011, they agreed to aid a company known as Sunshine Universal to obtain federal grant funds for the stated reason of preparing an economic development study for Sweetwater, all in exchange for cash kickbacks to Maroño and Forte. Unknown to Maroño and Forte, Sunshine Universal was an undercover FBI entity. To aid the scheme, Maroño caused the passage of a resolution in Sweetwater that authorized the undercover agents’ company to apply for federal grant moneys using the authority of the city of Sweetwater. After the resolution was passed, Maroño and Forte personally met and negotiated with the undercover agents and accepted a series of cash payments in exchange for Maroño’s official actions in support of the grant scheme. During these negotiations and meetings, Forte acted as the front man for Maroño. To further the scheme and avoid detection, Maroño also participated in what he believed to be audit telephone calls from the federal government to confirm the grantees’ performance on the grant. During two separate audit calls, both of which were recorded, Maroño lied to and misled the auditor, who was in fact an undercover FBI agent, about the actual use of the grant money and the grantee’s performance. For their corrupt actions, Maroño and Forte received $45,000. Both defendants have agreed to forfeit all the money they received as part of their plea agreements. Mr. Ferrer commends the investigative efforts of the FBI Miami Area Corruption Task Force. This case is being prosecuted Assistant U.S. Attorneys Jared E. Dwyer and Robert K. Senior. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls.
corruption In El Paso, FBI agents arrested a former El Paso County Assistant District Attorney Antonio Reyes based on a federal grand jury indictment charging him with conspiracy to commit wire fraud and the deprivation of honest services, announced United States Attorney Robert Pitman and FBI Special Agent in Charge Douglas E. Lindquist. The indictment, returned on Wednesday and unsealed today, alleges that from March 30, 2011 until April 15, 2011, Reyes conspired with others through text messaging to accept cash bribes in exchange for dismissing pending criminal cases. Upon conviction, Reyes faces up to 20 years’ imprisonment. “The arrest of Mr. Reyes demonstrates the FBI’s unwavering commitment to the citizens of El Paso that we will vigorously investigate allegations of public corruption in our community and bring those responsible to justice. The citizens of this community deserve to have a sense of confidence that their tax dollars are being spent efficiently for the public good and not for the private enrichment of those in a position of trust,” stated FBI Special Agent in Charge Douglas E. Lindquist. This indictment resulted from an investigation conducted by the agents with the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney William F. Lewis is prosecuting this case on behalf of the government. An indictment is merely a charge and should not be considered as evidence of guilt. The defendant is presumed innocent until proven guilty in a court of law.
corruption BALTIMORE—Five defendants, all from Baltimore, pleaded guilty this week to their participation in a racketeering conspiracy in which drugs and other contraband were smuggled inside several correctional facilities for members of the Black Guerilla Family (BGF) gang. The following defendants pleaded guilty today: Katrina Laprade, a/k/a Katrina Lyons, age 31, a correctional officer Kenneth Parham, age 23, a BGF inmate Tyrone Thompson, a/k/a Henry, age 36, a supplier of contraband Jermaine McFadden, a/k/a Maine, age 24, an inmate, pleaded guilty on November 5th and Teshawn Pinder, age 24, a supplier, pleaded guilty on November 4th. The guilty pleas were announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Secretary Gary D. Maynard of the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services; Baltimore Police Commissioner Anthony W. Batts; and Baltimore City State’s Attorney Gregg L. Bernstein. According to court documents, BGF has been the dominant gang at the Baltimore City Detention Center (BCDC) and in several connected facilities, including the Baltimore Central Booking Intake Center, the Women’s Detention Center, which houses many men, and in the Jail Industries Building. Katrina Laprade, a correctional officer at BCDC, admitted that in 2012 and 2013, she helped smuggle contraband, including marijuana and tobacco, into BCDC on behalf of Stephen Loney, a BGF leader. Kenneth Parham, a BGF member, while in pretrial custody at the BCDC from 2012 to 2013, directed the smuggling of contraband into BCDC, including cell phones, tobacco, and drugs, through the services of correctional officers who received payments, gifts, or a share of the profits. As a close associate of inmate and BGF leader Tavon White, Parham knew many correctional officers involved in contraband trafficking. Parham also helped conceal contraband from prison officials at BCDC. Tyrone Thompson admitted that he distributed prescription pills to other co-defendants who then smuggled the pills to inmates at BCDC. Jermaine McFadden was associated with BGF while incarcerated at BCDC in 2012 and 2013. McFadden arranged with correctional officer Katera Stevenson and another correctional officer to bring Percocets, cell phones, tobacco, marijuana, and other contraband into BCDC. He then sold the contraband to other inmates including members of BGF. Teshawn Pinder, at the direction of a BGF inmate, picked up controlled substances and other contraband from sources outside the BCDC. Pinder held the items until she could turn them over to a correctional officer recruited by the BGF inmate to smuggle them into BCDC. Pinder also helped pay for the drugs, purchasing “Money Paks” for the BGF inmate and transmitting the numbers to him, or loading them herself onto Green Dot cards. Sometimes, she paid cash to the drug suppliers. The defendants face a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison for the racketeering conspiracy. U.S. District Judge Ellen L. Hollander scheduled sentencing for Parham, Pinder and Thompson on February 6, 2014, and scheduled sentencing for Laprade and McFadden on March 12, 2014. In addition to Laprade, seven other CO’s have pleaded guilty to the racketeering enterprise: Kimberly Dennis, age 26, of Baltimore, Maryland Jasmin Jones, a/k/a/ J.J., age 24, of Baltimore Taryn Kirkland, age 23, of Baltimore Jennifer Owens, a/k/a/ O and J.O., age 31, of Randallstown Adrena Rice, age 25, of Baltimore Katera Stevenson, a/k/a KK, age 24, of Baltimore Jasmine Thornton, a/k/a J.T., age 26, of Glen Burnie. Three other co-defendants—inmates Tavon White, age 36, and Steven Loney, age 24, both of Baltimore, and Tyesha Mayo, age 29, of Baltimore—have also pleaded guilty. The investigation was a result of the efforts of the Maryland Prison Task Force, formed in 2011 with the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services; local, state, and federal law enforcement agencies; and prosecutors. The task force has met regularly for more than two years and generated recommendations to reform prison procedures. The investigation is continuing. U.S. Attorney Rosenstein recognized the efforts of the other members of the Maryland Prison Task Force, including: Colonel Marcus L. Brown, Superintendent of the Maryland State Police; Chief Mark A. Magaw of the Prince George’s County Police Department; United States Marshal Johnny Hughes; Special Agent in Charge Karl C. Colder of the Drug Enforcement Administration-Washington Field Division; Tom Carr, Director of the Washington-Baltimore High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area; and Dave Engel, Executive Director of the Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI, Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services, Baltimore Police Department, and Maryland Prison Task Force for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant United States Attorneys Robert R. Harding and Ayn B. Ducao, who are prosecuting this Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force case.
corruption Public Corruption Inside the Kwame Kilpatrick Case 11/08/13 When Kwame Kilpatrick became mayor of Detroit in 2002, he promised to revitalize the city. Instead, he shamelessly used his position to steal from the citizens he had vowed to serve. “Criminal activity was a way of life for him, and he constantly used the power of his office to look for new opportunities to make money illegally,” said Special Agent Robert Beeckman, who investigated the mayor and his corrupt regime for eight years. Last month, a federal judge sentenced Kilpatrick to a 28-year prison term for his role in a wide-ranging racketeering conspiracy that included extortion, bribery, and fraud. Thirty-two others have also been convicted of crimes in connection with the case, including Kilpatrick’s contractor friend Bobby Ferguson, who received a 21-year jail term.   ‘Fed Up With Corruption’ During his six years as mayor of Detroit, Kwame Kilpatrick “pervasively and systematically corrupted city government,” said a sentencing memorandum to the court prepared by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Michigan. “The citizens had the right to expect honesty, integrity, and responsibility when they elected Kilpatrick. What they got instead was widespread graft, extortion, and theft.” The memorandum noted that Kilpatrick remains unrepentant: “Even now, after years of civil and criminal litigation, there is no evidence that Kilpatrick has accepted responsibility for his crimes in office, nor is there any sign of remorse or contrition.” Michigan voters, however, have made themselves heard. They overwhelmingly approved a ballot proposal amending the state’s constitution to place a 20-year ban on public officials convicted of felonies alleging violations relating to corruption from holding an elected or appointed position with control over public assets or public policy. Besides the 20-year ban, said Special Agent Robert Beeckman, “the city of Detroit has made a number of other significant changes that will make it more difficult for the next guy who considers violating the public trust.” “Everyone here is so fed up with corruption,” he added. “Kilpatrick’s six-month trial really opened people’s eyes to exactly what this guy did and how devastating it was to the city.”   Kilpatrick and Ferguson established a “pay to play” system that made breaking the law standard operating procedure. Kilpatrick extorted city vendors, rigged bids, and took bribes. He used funds from non-profit civic organizations to line his pockets and those of his family. And he was unabashed about it. “His crimes were not the result of a momentary lapse in judgment,” said a document prepared for the court by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Michigan. “He systematically exploited his office to enrich himself, his friends, and his family.” For example, Kilpatrick and Ferguson obtained more than $500,000 from the state of Michigan and private donors for non-profit organizations they controlled. The organizations were supposed to help the community. Instead, the mayor spent large sums on himself for luxury vacations, spa treatments, and golf clubs. The FBI opened a case on Kilpatrick in 2004, two years after he moved into the mayor’s mansion. “Initially, we had sources and a few cooperating defendants from other cases who revealed a pay to play scheme and that the mayor was behind it,” Beeckman said. As the investigation unfolded, our agents—along with investigators from the Internal Revenue Service and other agencies—used court-ordered wiretaps and undercover operators to gather evidence. “Over the years, we employed every investigative technique we could,” Beeckman said. A significant break in the case came when investigators discovered that Kilpatrick’s cell phone provider had kept an archive of all his text messages. “The messages were explicit,” Beeckman said. “He talked about bid rigging, bribes, and other criminal activity. He had no idea there would be a record of those messages.” Investigators also followed the money, which left no doubt about Kilpatrick’s corruption. Before he became mayor, Kilpatrick’s paycheck from the state of Michigan was electronically deposited into his bank account, and he made regular withdrawals to pay bills and to get cash. After his election, he stopped making withdrawals and instead made only large cash deposits. Kilpatrick’s bank records revealed more than $840,000 in unexplained expenditures above and beyond his salary as mayor—and none of that money was disclosed on his tax returns. “There were times,” Beeckman said, “when the mayor would hand one of the officers on his protective detail an envelope with cash and tell him to take it to the bank and pay his credit card bill.” The beleaguered mayor pled guilty to two felony counts in 2008 and resigned his office. Two years later, he was indicted for mail fraud, wire fraud, and tax evasion; in March 2013 he was found guilty of the wide-ranging racketeering conspiracy charges. Why was Kilpatrick so brazen about his crimes? “He thought he was above the law,” Beeckman believes. “He thought he could do whatever he wanted and get away with it.” That turned out not to be the case, thanks to the dedicated work of the investigators and prosecutors who ultimately brought Kilpatrick and his co-conspirators to justice. Resource: Press release
corruption In El Paso today, former ACCESS Health Source Chief Executive Officer and President Frank Apodaca and El Paso Public Relations consultant Marc Schwartz were each sentenced to eight years in federal prison, followed by three years of supervised release, for their roles in conspiring to engage in a racketeering scheme focusing on the now-defunct company, announced United States Attorney Robert Pitman and FBI Special Agent in Charge Douglas E. Lindquist. United States District Judge Frank Montalvo also ordered that the defendants pay restitution in the following amounts: $4.1 million to the El Paso Independent School District (EPISD); $2,286,629.76 to the Ysleta Independent School District (YISD); and $433,103.11 to El Paso County. Furthermore, Judge Montalvo ordered that each defendant self–surrender to a U.S. Bureau of Prisons designated facility on or before December 18, 2013, to begin serving his prison term. “The sentences handed down today should reassure the public that we will be relentless in pursuing those who would attempt to corrupt public officials as well as those public officials who violate their public trust for personal gain,” stated U.S. Attorney Robert Pitman. ACCESS, among other things, was a third-party administrator of health care benefits for self-insured entities. Between 1998 and 2007, ACCESS contracted with self-insured local (El Paso) government entities, including the county, the city, and all the local school districts, among other entities, to provide administrative services for health insurance programs provided by their employer. Last year, both pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to engage in racketeering activity (RICO). By pleading guilty, Apodaca and Schwartz admitted to participating in a scheme involving ACCESS and others to engage in a pattern of racketeering activity, including mail fraud, wire fraud, and bribery with elected and appointed members of the El Paso County Commissioners Court and elected Trustees of EPISD, YISD, and the Socorro Independent School District to secure and retain lucrative health care management service contracts. Specifically, Schwartz admitted that he carried out schemes on behalf of Apodaca, former ACCESS CEO and president and National Center for the Employment of the Disabled (NCED) board member; ACCESS owner and NCED CEO Robert “Bob” Jones; and El Paso attorney Luther Jones to pay bribes to elected officials, including former Socorro ISD Trustees Raymundo “Ray” Rodriguez, Guillermo “Willie” Gandara, Sr., and Charles “Charlie” Garcia; former YISD Trustees Linda Chavez and Mickey Duntley; former EPISD Trustee Salvador “Sal” Mena; former El Paso County Commissioners Elizabeth “Betti” Flores and Larry Medina; and former El Paso County Judge Dolores Briones for performing acts in their official capacity which benefitted ACCESS. “The sentencing of Frank Apodaca, Jr. and Marc Schwartz marks another chapter in a 10-year investigation in which public confidence was betrayed by a group of elected officials and vendors who used their influence to promote their own personal greed. It also shows the continued commitment of the FBI to aggressively pursue individuals who violated the public’s trust by holding them personally accountable for their self-serving acts,” stated FBI SAC Douglas E. Lindquist. This FBI investigation has resulted in 39 federal convictions—36 individuals who entered guilty pleas and three individuals who were convicted by juries. Assistant United States Attorneys Debra Kanof and Jose Luis Gonzalez are prosecuting this case on behalf of the government.
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, Acting United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, announced that Harry P. Miconi, 77, of West Haven, waived his right to indictment and pleaded guilty today before U.S. District Judge Michael P. Shea in Hartford to paying hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes to a senior official at the West Haven Housing Authority. According to court documents and statements made in court, Miconi owned and operated several painting and contracting businesses in West Haven, including P and K Contractor LLC. In pleading guilty, Miconi admitted that, between January 2007 and February 2012, he and his business made more than $800,000 in corrupt payments to a senior official at the West Haven Housing Authority and to Four Star Development Company LLC, an entity personally owned and controlled by the official. In return, the official directed millions of dollars in business for or with the West Haven Housing Authority and its two affiliated instrumentalities, Meadow Landing and Spring Heights, to instrumentalities and his businesses. instrumentalities pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit bribery in connection with a program receiving federal funds, which carries a maximum term of imprisonment of five years. Judge Shea has scheduled sentencing for January 29, 2014. As part of his plea, instrumentalities has agreed to pay $862,563 in restitution. Acting U.S. Attorney Daly stated that the investigation is ongoing. This matter is being investigated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development-Office of Inspector General, Federal Bureau of Investigation, and Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys David T. Huang and Susan L. Wines.
corruption BALTIMORE, MD—Baltimore Police officer Ashley Roane, age 26, of Pikesville, Maryland, pleaded guilty today to extortion and aggravated identity theft. The guilty plea was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and Commissioner Anthony W. Batts of the Baltimore Police Department. According to her plea agreement, beginning in the fall of 2012, Roane and her roommate Erica Hughes engaged in a scheme whereby they provided the names and Social Security numbers of persons arrested by the Baltimore Police to an individual who could file false tax returns to obtain fraudulent tax refunds. Roane obtained the personal information of more than 30 people from law enforcement databases through her position as a Baltimore Police officer. Roane and Hughes provided the information to the individual, whom they believed worked as a tax preparer, in addition to being a large scale heroin trafficker in Baltimore. The individual whom the defendants believed was filing false tax returns and selling heroin was, in fact, an FBI cooperator. On April 4, 2013, FBI agents watched as Roane arrived in her marked police patrol car for a meeting with the individual to obtain a fraudulent tax refund payment. As directed by the individual, Roane retrieved an envelope containing $2,500 from the source’s vehicle. At a recorded meeting on April 24, 2013, the individual went to Roane’s house and gave Roane an additional $1,500 that the FBI had provided to the individual, purported to be a fraudulent tax refund. Roane admitted that she also provided protection for the individual’s purported drug trafficking. For example, on March 31, 2013, Roane told the individual that she had performed an unauthorized criminal check of one of the individual’s alleged associates to determine if the associate was a police informant, and the individual was “clean.” After Roane agreed to provide protection during drug transactions, on April 30, 2013, the FBI set up a controlled purchase by the individual of white powder that resembled a kilogram of heroin. The FBI watched while Roane, in uniform, armed with her service gun, and in a marked police car, provided protection while the individual purportedly retrieved heroin from a vehicle provided by the FBI. Shortly thereafter, at a prearranged meeting, the individual paid Roane $500 for her protection. Roane agreed to provide such protection again in a future transaction involving multiple kilograms of heroin. During the course of the schemes, Roane and Hughes received $5,250 from the individual in what Roane believed was proceeds of fraudulent tax refunds. Roane also received a total of $1,000 in exchange for providing protection to the individual during what Roane believed were kilogram-level heroin transactions. Roane and the government have agreed that if the court accepts the plea agreement, a sentence of between 60 and 111 months is the appropriate disposition of the case. U.S. District Judge William D. Quarles, Jr. has scheduled sentencing for February 4, 2014, at 1:00 p.m. Co-defendant Erica Hughes, age 26, of Pikesville, previously pleaded guilty to aggravated identity theft and is scheduled to be sentenced on January 14, 2014, at 1:00 p.m. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI and Baltimore Police Department for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant U.S. Attorney Peter M. Nothstein, who is prosecuting the case.
corruption HOUSTON—Michael Mares, a former officer with the Onalaska Police Department, has been ordered to federal prison for providing firearms to a convicted felon, announced United States Attorney Kenneth Magidson. Mares, 51, pleaded guilty, admitting he knowingly sold a firearm and various police items to a convicted felon who was planning a home invasion in which he and others planned on impersonating police officers. Today, U.S. District Judge Nancy Atlas ordered Mares serve a term of 37 months in federal prison. At the hearing, the court admonished Mares that when police officers arrive at a home, citizens rely on them actually being police officers and that Mares helped others who intended to abuse that trust to commit crimes. On August 30, 2011, a FBI confidential source met with Mares and provided him with $1,000 to purchase a firearm, five police T-shirts, and police strobe lights. The source told Mares that he was a convicted felon. The source further noted he and others were going to conduct a home invasion of a narcotics trafficker and intended to impersonate police officers in order to gain control of the residence. Mares agreed to purchase the items for him. The investigation culminated in the indictment of 25 members and associates of the Texas Mexican Mafia charged with drug trafficking, various firearms offenses, and violent crimes in aid of racketeering. According to the indictment, the TMM formed in the early 1980s in the Texas Department of Criminal Justice. The defendants conspired with one another and others from 2008 through October 2012 to procure illegal drugs and distribute the drugs to numerous associates involved in drug trafficking in order to carry out the business of the gang. Gang members also sold numerous assault rifles and other guns, as well as detonation cord to FBI sources. Mares has been and will remain in custody pending transfer to a U.S. Bureau of Prisons facility to be determined in the near future. The four-year investigation was conducted by the FBI; Texas Department of Public Safety; Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives; and Houston Police Department. Assistant United States Attorneys Tim S. Braley and Mark Donnelly are prosecuting.
corruption RIVERSIDE, CA—In a case stemming from what is believed to be the largest bribe ever accepted by a public official in an undercover operation, a former member of the Moreno Valley City Council has agreed to plead guilty to a federal bribery charge for taking a $2.36 million cash payment from an undercover operative posing as a real estate broker. Marcelo Co, 64, was charged this morning with one bribery count and one count of filing a false corporate tax return. In court documents filed this morning in United States District Court, Co agreed to plead guilty to the two charges that could send him to federal prison for as long as 13 years. “Mr. Co orchestrated an elaborate and brazen scheme to undermine the democratic process in Moreno Valley,” said United States Attorney André Birotte, Jr. “Whether he was motivated by power or greed, these crimes constitute a wholesale violation of his oath to work for the citizens who elected him.” Co, who was elected to the city council in November 2010 and resigned from his seat in August after being charged in state court in an unrelated welfare fraud case, is expected to make his initial court appearance in the federal bribery case early next month. “It is a very sad day for the citizens of Moreno Valley when one of their elected council members sacrifices his legal and ethical obligations for power and greed,” said Riverside County District Attorney Paul Zellerbach. “This type of unlawful conduct by Mr. Co undermines the very fabric of good government and what we all hope and expect from our elected officials.” The case against Co is the result of an ongoing investigation by the Inland Regional Corruption Task Force, which is composed of prosecutors, agents, and investigators from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, IRS-Criminal Investigation, the Riverside County District Attorney’s Office, and the United States Attorney’s Office. “Mr. Co regularly traded votes, land, and confidential information in exchange for cash to fund his personal bank account, rather than what was in the best interest of the residents of Moreno Valley," said Bill Lewis, the Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Los Angeles Field Office. "This case was a result of seamless collaboration by the Inland Regional Corruption Task Force, whose members share a mission of rooting out corruption across the Inland Empire." The court documents filed this morning outline a bribery scheme in which Co told a businessman and an undercover FBI operative posing as a real estate broker that he would control a voting majority of the Moreno Valley City Council and would be able to guarantee land use decisions that would benefit the businessman and the land broker. Co also promised to always vote in favor of land use decisions that would benefit the real estate broker. Co solicited campaign donations from the businessman, who was cooperating with the investigation, and the FBI undercover operative. Co eventually received payments of $5,000 and $10,000 that he said were to be used to finance the campaigns of individuals who would vote with him on land use issues. In the fall of 2012, Co met with the undercover operative to discuss a multi-million-dollar sale of a 30-acre parcel that he owned. Co told the real estate broker that once he had control of the city council, he could change the zoning of the property, and the land value would dramatically increase. With the city council election in November 2012, Co told the undercover investigator that he had the votes to alter the zoning and increase the value of Co’s 30-acre parcel, which had been appraised at $710,000. Co proposed that the undercover operative purchase the property for $5.36 million, which would include a cash payment of $2.36 million. At a meeting on January 30, 2013, Co agreed to sell the property for $5.36 million, but that the publicly filed documents would reflect a sale price of only $3 million. At this meeting, Co accepted $2.36 million in cash. The tax charge that was filed today concerns a United States Corporation Income Tax Return (Form 1120) that Co filed for his company, Qwik Pack Systems, for tax year 2010. In that filing with the IRS, Co failed to report well over $100,000 in income. This tax charge is not related to the bribery scheme. “Mr. Co’s intentional omission of more than $112,000 in taxable income—and failure to pay $31,000 in tax to the IRS—was committed for his own private gain and was an insult to honest taxpayers and the citizens of Moreno Valley,” said Joel P. Garland, Acting Special Agent in Charge for IRS-Criminal Investigation, Los Angeles Field Office. “Today’s action is an example of IRS-CI’s vigilance when it comes to enforcing tax laws, particularly when it involves our public officials. IRS-CI, in partnership with our law enforcement partners, is committed to bringing to justice public officials who use their political office to commit crimes.” At Co’s initial appearance in federal court, which is expected to be in early December, the case will be assigned to a district judge who will schedule a hearing for Co to formally enter the guilty pleas.
corruption BOWLING GREEN, KY—A former Taylor County, Kentucky deputy sheriff charged with distribution of anabolic steroids waived his formal appearance in United States District Court in Bowling Green Friday, and a trial date was scheduled for December 16, 2013, announced David J. Hale United States Attorney for the Western District of Kentucky. William Allen Rice, age 38, of Campbellsville, was charged in a criminal complaint on October 1, 2013, and subsequently charged by federal grand jury indictment on October 16, 2013. According to the three-count federal indictment, on three separate occasions between May 17, 2013 and August 10, 2013, in Taylor County, Kentucky, defendant Rice was recorded allegedly distributing Schedule III controlled substances including boldenone undecylenate, nandrolone decanoate, and testosterone rnanthate. Further, the affidavit attached alleges that defendant Rice was observed driving his assigned Taylor County Sheriff’s Office vehicle to prearranged meeting locations and wore his Taylor County Sheriff’s Office uniform and a pistol on his hip during one transaction with a confidential human source. If convicted of the charges, Rice faces no more than 30 years in prison, a fine of no more than $1,500,000, and no less than two years of supervised release. The trial was scheduled before Chief Judge Joseph H. McKinley, Jr. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Amanda E. Gregory and is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). The indictment of a person by a grand jury is an accusation only, and that person is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty.
corruption OXFORD, MI—Felicia C. Adams, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Mississippi, and Daniel McMullen, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in Mississippi, announce that John David Hernandez, 35, of Olive Branch, Mississippi, was sentenced on October 31, 2013, by United States District Judge Glen H. Davidson, following his plea of guilty in July 2013 to one count of extortion under color of official right, one count of money laundering, and one count of obstruction of a federal investigation. The charges arose out of Hernandez, while a Water Valley, Mississippi Police Ooficer, receiving money from a drug trafficker in return for providing law enforcement information. Judge Davidson ordered Hernandez to serve 12 months and one day in custody on each count of conviction, to run concurrently, followed by three years’ supervised release. The United States Attorney’s Office obtained a forfeiture in the form of a money judgment against Hernandez in the amount of $5,000. United States Attorney Felicia C. Adams stated that “Hernandez’s actions were reprehensible. He abused his authority, violated the law and the public trust. Today’s sentence demonstrates that such actions undermine the rule of law and will not be tolerated. While the majority of law enforcement officers are hardworking professionals who risk their lives daily for our safety, the U.S. Attorney’s Office is committed to aggressively prosecuting those officers who break the law and violate the public trust.” This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation; the Mississippi Bureau of Narcotics; the Drug Enforcement Administration; the Internal Revenue Service; and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives and was part of the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force initiative. The case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Clyde McGee, IV and Samuel D. Wright.
corruption Attorney-Turned-Racketeer ‘Stunning’ Betrayal of the Law 10/31/13 Earlier this year, a man was put on trial in a federal courtroom in Newark, New Jersey. From the list of charges—nearly two dozen in all—he sounded like a gang leader, drug lord, or organized crime boss. He was accused of running a criminal enterprise, conspiring to murder a federal witness, committing wire fraud, distributing cocaine, and facilitating prostitution, bribery, and other crimes. But the individual who was ultimately convicted on 23 criminal counts and sentenced to life in prison was actually a high-powered Newark lawyer, a former New Jersey state and federal prosecutor-turned defense attorney. His name is Paul Bergrin, and, in the end, he sacrificed the oath he had once taken to protect and defend the Constitution of the United States for the chance to line his own pockets. As New Jersey U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman said following the jury conviction, “Bergrin’s conduct was a stunning violation of his role as an officer of the court and a betrayal of his roots as a member of law enforcement.” For years, Bergrin and his law firm were highly successful. His busy client roster ran the gamut—from famous celebrities to gang leaders and drug traffickers. He was a man-about-town who wore expensive suits, drove luxury cars, and rarely lost a case. But after the 2004 murder of a federal informant who had damaging information about one of Bergrin’s criminal clients, the FBI began an investigation. We uncovered evidence that revealed Bergrin was using his law offices as a cover to conduct illegal activities to protect his criminal clients from prosecution and carry on their unlawful pursuits. He used his position as a criminal defense attorney to manipulate and disrupt court proceedings on behalf of his clients. And of course, he was paid handsomely for all of it. Among Bergrin’s criminal actions: Counseling, intimidating, and sometimes bribing witnesses to offer perjured testimony in favor of his clients or to flee so they wouldn’t be available to testify; Coaching an 8-year-old murder witness to lie on the stand, resulting in the acquittal of one of his clients; Conspiring with clients to identify, locate, and murder witnesses who would testify against them; Using his law firm to launder money for clients, associates, and himself and to set up phony corporations or other legal entities to facilitate even more crimes; Running a drug trafficking operation and a prostitution business for two of his clients while they were in jail. Bergrin had so many crimes on his plate that he recruited others—including his girlfriend (who worked at the law firm), his law partner, and one of his criminal clients—to take part in his racketeering enterprise. All told, eight of the nine individuals charged in the 2009 indictment pled guilty. The probe into Bergrin and his co-conspirators was complex and involved investigators from the FBI, the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigations, and the Drug Enforcement Administration. After a 2011 trial which ended with a hung jury, his 2013 trial (Bergrin represented himself at both trials) ended a bit differently—the jury quickly found him guilty on all counts. The case was proof once again that those entrusted with the guardianship of our legal system are not above the law. Resources: - Sentencing press release - Arrest press release
corruption CHICAGO—Two facilities of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County, which were spruced up in 2011, became part of an FBI sting investigation that resulted in federal charges against a former assistant engineer for allegedly taking $10,000 in kickbacks from two contracts he steered to a contractor who was cooperating with law enforcement. The defendant, Joseph Mollica, was indicted yesterday on two counts of federal bribery, law enforcement officials announced today. Mollica, 52, of Elmwood Park, will be arraigned next Wednesday in U.S. District Court. He was released on his own recognizance after he was arrested on October 3 and charged initially in a criminal complaint. Mollica was an assistant engineer for the Forest Preserve District for more than 20 years until last week, and he and others had authority to influence and award contracts for work under $25,000. Together, the indictment and complaint allege that on October 14, 2011, Mollica accepted a $6,000 kickback from a $24,900 contract to refinish and refurbish the Forest Preserve District’s headquarters building, where he worked, located at 536 N. Harlem Ave. in River Forest. On December 16, 2011, he allegedly accepted a $4,000 kickback from a $16,500 contract to power wash and stain the building and boardwalk and do caulking at the Sand Ridge Nature Center in Calumet City. The indictment seeks forfeiture of $10,000 in alleged kickback payments. In both instances, a cooperating individual, a construction company owner who recorded conversations and meetings with Mollica in which the contracts were arranged and the kickbacks were paid, appeared to perform the work properly and completely, according to the complaint affidavit of an FBI agent. The kickback payments occurred after the Forest Preserve District paid the cooperating individual for the work that was performed. The charges were announced by Zachary T. Fardon, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois, and Robert J. Shields, Jr., Acting Special Agent in Charge of the Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Each count of federal bribery carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. If convicted, the court must impose a reasonable sentence under federal statutes and the advisory United States Sentencing Guidelines. The government is being represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher Hotaling. An indictment contains merely charges and is not evidence of guilt. The defendant is presumed innocent and is entitled to a fair trial at which the government has the burden of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption A former city of Cleveland employee was sentenced to six months in prison, followed by six months of house arrest, for attempting to extort bribes from three companies in connection with his employment as a contract compliance officer, said Steven M. Dettelbach, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio, and Stephen D. Anthony, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Cleveland Field Office. Lejon C. Woods, age 29, of Cleveland, previously pleaded guilty to three counts of extortion under color of official right. “Today’s sentence sends a message that there will be continuing consequences for those who seek use their public job as a way to enrich themselves,” Dettelbach said. “Public corruption at any level is a breach of the public’s trust," Anthony said. "The FBI thanks the city of Cleveland, Division of Police-Intelligence Unit and the three area businesses that were solicited by Woods for their cooperation in bringing this matter to justice.” Woods, while acting in his capacity as a contract compliance officer with the city of Cleveland, solicited bribes from representatives of three local businesses, one of which was a non-profit business, in connection with fines which were going to be imposed for non-compliance of contract requirements, according to court records. The conduct took place from May 18, 2010 through August 5, 2010, according to the indictment. When city of Cleveland funds are used to pay for any part of a construction or rehabilitation project, the company involved in the project is subject to city of Cleveland's Office of Contract Compliance regulations relating to the hiring of certain percentages of minority business enterprises, disadvantaged business enterprises, and city resident workers, according to the indictment. Woods told representatives of the three companies that in exchange for a cash payment, he would alter records with the city of Cleveland to reflect compliance. Woods obtained or attempted to obtain cash payments of $2,800, $3,000, and $1,200 from the respective companies, according to the indictment. The indictment is a result of an investigation conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, with assistance from the Cleveland Division of Police, Intelligence Unit. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Henry F. DeBaggis.
corruption BALTIMORE—Kimberly Dennis, age 26, of Baltimore, Maryland, pleaded guilty today to a racketeering conspiracy for smuggling drugs and other contraband for members of the Black Guerilla Family (BGF) gang inside several correctional facilities. The guilty plea was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Secretary Gary D. Maynard of the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services; Baltimore Police Commissioner Anthony W. Batts; and Baltimore City State’s Attorney Gregg L. Bernstein. According to court documents, BGF has been the dominant gang at the Baltimore City Detention Center (BCDC) and in several connected facilities, including the Baltimore Central Booking Intake Center, the Women’s Detention Center, which houses many men, and in the Jail Industries Building. According to her plea, Kimberly Dennis worked as a correctional officer (CO) at Baltimore City Detention Center (BCDC) from 2006 to 2013. She entered into personal and sexual relationships with two inmates who were members of the Black Guerilla Family (BGF). Dennis smuggled contraband, including marijuana, tobacco, and prescription pills, into BCDC on behalf of BGF inmates, who would then sell that contraband to other BCDC inmates who were members of BGF. Dennis was aware that of the inmates’ BGF affiliation and assisted in furthering the racketeering enterprise. Dennis worked with other CO’s to assist in the smuggling. Dennis obtained contraband from others, including co-defendants. Dennis was aware that other co-defendants and correctional officers also smuggled contraband. Dennis faces a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison for the racketeering conspiracy. U.S. District Judge Ellen L. Hollander scheduled sentencing for January 24, 2014. In addition to Dennis, six other CO’s have pleaded guilty to the racketeering enterprise: Jasmin Jones, a/k/a/ J.J., age 24, of Baltimore Taryn Kirkland, age 23, of Baltimore Jennifer Owens, a/k/a/ O and J.O., age 31, of Randallstown Adrena Rice, age 25, of Baltimore Katera Stevenson, a/k/a KK, age 24, of Baltimore Jasmine Thornton, a/k/a J.T., age 26, of Glen Burnie Three other co-defendants, inmates Tavon White, age 36, and Steven Loney, age 24, both of Baltimore, and Tyesha Mayo, age 29, of Baltimore, have also pleaded guilty. The case arose from the efforts of the Maryland Prison Task Force, a group of local, state, and federal law enforcement agencies and prosecutors that met regularly for more than two years and generated recommendations to reform prison procedures. The investigation is continuing. U.S. Attorney Rosenstein recognized the efforts of the other members of the Maryland Prison Task Force, including: Colonel Marcus L. Brown, Superintendent of the Maryland State Police; Chief Mark A. Magaw of the Prince George’s County Police Department; United States Marshal Johnny Hughes; Special Agent in Charge Karl C. Colder of the Drug Enforcement Administration-Washington Field Division; Tom Carr, Director of the Washington-Baltimore High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area; and Dave Engel, Executive Director of the Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI, Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services, Baltimore Police Department, and Maryland Prison Task Force, for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant United States Attorneys Robert R. Harding and Ayn B. Ducao, who are prosecuting this Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force case.
corruption ROME, GA—Michael Henderson, a former Captain with Murray County Sheriff’s Office, has been sentenced to 12 months and one day in prison for obstructing a public corruption investigation. “By lying to his fellow law enforcement officers, Mr. Henderson obstructed a public corruption investigation,” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. “But, in addition to violating the law, Mr. Henderson also violated the trust given to him by Murray County’s citizen.” Mark F. Giuliano, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated, “Today’s sentencing of former Captain Henderson marks the end of an otherwise successful and promising career in law enforcement with the Murray County Sheriff’s Office. Actions that betray an officer’s sworn oath and the overall public trust bestowed upon them cannot be tolerated. With today’s sentencing, former Captain Henderson is being held accountable for those actions.” According to United States Attorney Yates, the charges, and other information presented in court: in April 2012, a female citizen of Murray County, Georgia met with then-Chief Magistrate Judge Bryant Cochran regarding a legal matter. The citizen claimed that during that meeting, Mr. Cochran made inappropriate sexual overtures towards her. Following the complaint, Mr. Cochran called several local police officers to pass along a “tip” that the citizen carried drugs in her white Dodge vehicle. Sometime in mid-July 2012, Mr. Cochran provided then-Captain Henderson with the tip that the citizen carried drugs in her white Dodge vehicle. After receiving the tip, Henderson provided the tip to, and discussed the tip with, other members of the Murray County Sheriff’s Office. On August 14, 2012, Henderson and separately convicted former Deputy Sheriff Joshua L. Greeson participated in a traffic stop of the white Dodge car. During the stop, Greeson found methamphetamine in a metal tin hidden under the wheel well of the car. After finding the drugs, Henderson and Greeson arrested the female citizen and another occupant of the vehicle. Shortly thereafter, the Georgia Bureau of Investigation (GBI) received information that the drugs had been planted on the vehicle by another individual in an attempt to falsely implicate the female citizen. As a result, the state drug charges against the citizen were dismissed. On August 22, 2012, agents from the GBI interviewed Henderson in connection with a public corruption investigation. During the interview, Henderson falsely stated to the GBI agents that he had never told any other members of the Murray County Sheriff’s Office that he had received a tip that the white Dodge was allegedly carrying drugs. On August 31, 2012, Henderson was fired from the Murray County Sheriff’s Office. On March 27, 2013, Henderson, 41, of Murray County, Georgia, pleaded guilty to tampering with a witness by lying to the GBI agents. United States District Judge Harold L. Murphy sentenced Henderson to 12 months and one day in prison, to be followed by one year of supervised release. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Georgia Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorneys Jeffrey W. Davis and Michael Herskowitz prosecuted the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Presse-mails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia is www.justice.gov/usao/gan.
corruption DALLAS—Thomas S. Kantzos, 45, of Fort Worth, Texas, a former officer with the Arlington Police Department (APD) appeared this morning before U.S. Magistrate Judge Renée Harris Toliver and pleaded guilty to an indictment charging exceeding access to a protected computer, announced U.S. Attorney Sarah R. Saldaña of the Northern District of Texas. As an officer with the APD, Kantzos was authorized to access law enforcement information obtained through the Texas Crime Information Center (TCIC), the National Crime Information Center (NCIC), and the Texas Law Enforcement Telecommunication System (TLETS), and he received specialized training on the authorized uses of the information, as well as the potential penalties for the misuse of such information. Personal use of such information, including releasing information to members of the general public, is not authorized and violates APD policy. Prior to December 2011, Kantzos knew that “Person A” was an individual who trafficked in anabolic steroids. In fact, Kantzos had received anabolic steroids from Person A for both his own use and for the use of other APD officers. In November or December 2011, Person A suspected that he was under police surveillance. On December 29, 2011, Person A saw a motor vehicle parked near his house and asked Kantzos to “run” the license plate because he was concerned that law enforcement was watching him and he did not want to get arrested for trafficking the anabolic steroids. Kantzos, without a legitimate law enforcement purpose, used the computer in his patrol car, while he was on duty, to access the Texas Department of Public Safety’s (DPS) protected computer through TLETS, under the guise of conducting a stolen vehicle investigative inquiry. His computer inquiry automatically searched for information about that motor vehicle contained in law enforcement computers located in Texas and in other states, such as the NCIC computer. Kantzos admits he knew the use of this computer for this purpose exceeded authorized use. After Kantzos obtained the information about the vehicle, he relayed the information to Person A to help Person A avoid arrest, apprehension, or disruption while Person A unlawfully trafficked in the anabolic steroids. Kantzos, who remains on bond, faces a maximum statutory penalty of five years in federal prison and a $250,000 fine. Sentencing is set for February 12, 2014, before U.S. District Judge Barbara M. G. Lynn. The case is being investigated by the FBI and the Texas Ranger Division of the Texas DPS. Deputy Criminal Chief Assistant U.S. Attorney Gary Tromblay and Assistant U.S. Attorney Mark Penley are prosecuting.
corruption Former Cuyahoga County employee and Maple Heights school board member Santina “Sandy” Klimkowski was sentenced to four years in prison today for her role in the Cuyahoga County corruption scandal, federal law enforcement officials announced today. Klimkowski, 61, of Maple Heights, previously pleaded guilty to after previously pleading Hobbs Act conspiracy, bribery, conspiracy to commit mail fraud, making false statements, tax charges, and other crimes. Klimkowski participated in a scheme with then-Cuyahoga County Auditor Frank Russo in which contracts for commercial appraisal work went to a company that paid bribes to Russo, a portion of which went to Klimkowski. She also got cash and home repairs in exchange for using her position on the school board to steer construction contracts to contractors who paid bribes to her, according to court documents. She was also ordered to pay $270,302 in restitution. That money will go to Cuyahoga County ($154,000), Maple Heights City Schools ($83,414), and the Internal Revenue Service ($32,888). “Klimkowski is yet another individual uncovered in a lengthy public corruption investigation that was portraying herself as a public servant through her employment while defrauding the citizens of our community,” said Stephen D. Anthony, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI’s Cleveland Field Office. “The FBI and its partners will continue to root out public corruption, bringing the individuals involved to justice, as demonstrated with more than 60 convictions in this investigation.” More than 60 people—including two judges, the county auditor and a former county commissioner—have been convicted in the federal investigation into corruption in Cuyahoga County. Cuyahoga County is the largest county in Ohio and includes Cleveland. The case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Nancy L. Kelley and Antoinette T. Bacon following an investigation by the FBI and IRS-Criminal Investigation.
corruption WASHINGTON—Former U.S. Congressman Rick Renzi was sentenced today to serve 36 months in prison following his June conviction by a federal jury in Tucson, Arizona, for extortion, bribery, insurance fraud, money laundering, and racketeering. Renzi’s co-defendant, James Sandlin, was also sentenced today to serve 18 months in prison for his role in the extortion, bribery, and money laundering scheme. Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, First Assistant U.S. Attorney Elizabeth A. Strange of the District of Arizona, Special Agent in Charge Douglas G. Price of the FBI’s Phoenix Division, and Special Agent in Charge Dawn Mertz of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI) made the announcement following sentencing by Senior U.S. District Judge David C. Bury. Renzi, 55, of Burke, Virginia, and Sandlin, 62, of Sherman, Texas, were convicted on June 11, 2013. Renzi was found guilty of 17 felony offenses, including conspiracy, honest services wire fraud, extortion under color of official right, racketeering, money laundering, and making false statements to insurance regulators. Sandlin was convicted of 13 felony offenses including conspiracy, honest services wire fraud, extortion under color of official right, and money laundering. “Mr. Renzi abused the power—and the corresponding trust—that comes with being a member of Congress by putting his own financial interests over the interests of the citizens he had sworn to serve,” said Acting Assistant Attorney General Raman. “He fleeced his own insurance company to fund his run for Congress and then exploited his position for personal gain. Mr. Renzi’s conviction and today’s sentence demonstrate the Justice Department’s commitment to fighting corruption at the highest levels of government.” “Former Congressman Renzi disregarded his oath to uphold the law, ignoring the interests of the people he was elected to serve in favor of his own interests,” stated First Assistant U.S. Attorney Strange. “The sentences imposed today reinforce the fundamental principle that no one, including an elected official, is above the law.” “When our elected officials betray the trust of the American people it strikes at the very core of our democracy,” said FBI Special Agent in Charge Price. “The sentencing of former Congressman Rick Renzi illustrates the commitment by the FBI and our law enforcement partners to investigate and prosecute corruption at all levels. Today’s sentencing is a reminder that when a public official violates the public’s trust they will be held accountable to the fullest extent of the law.” “The public expects its elected officials to be honest, to be trustworthy, and to show respect for the law," stated IRS Special Agent in Charge Mertz. “Those in public office should be held to a higher standard and are not exempt from criminal prosecution. The prison sentence imposed today should serve as a wake-up call to other public officials who believe there are no consequences for betraying the public trust.” According to evidence at trial, Renzi, then a member of Congress from Arizona’s 1st Congressional District, promised in 2005 to use his legislative influence to profit from a federal land exchange that involved property owned by Sandlin, a real-estate investor. At the time, Sandlin owed Renzi $700,000 in future payments from their business dealings, and Renzi threatened proponents of the land exchange that he would not support it unless they purchased Sandlin’s property in Cochise County, Arizona. When they refused, Renzi promised a second proponent of a land exchange that he would support the exchange if they purchased Sandlin’s property. According to an agreement reached in May 2005, Sandlin was paid $1 million in earnest money, out of which he paid $200,000 to Renzi. Just before Sandlin received the $1.6 million balance owed on the exchange, he paid an additional $533,000 to Renzi. Evidence at trial further showed that from 2001 to 2003, Renzi engaged in insurance fraud by diverting his clients’ insurance premiums to fund his first campaign for Congress, and he subsequently sent false letters to his insurance customers and provided false statements to various state regulators who were investigating his activities. This case was investigated by the FBI and the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation. The prosecution was handled by Trial Attorneys David Harbach and Sean Mulryne of the Department of Justice’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Gary Restaino and James Knapp of the District of Arizona.
corruption BATON ROUGE, LA—Acting United States Attorney Walt Green announced today that U.S. District Judge James J. Brady sentenced Kiamani A. Beasley, age 28, of Jeanerette, Louisiana, to 12 months and a day imprisonment and 12 months of supervised release following imprisonment. The sentence results from Beasley’s conviction for embezzlement from a federally funded entity in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 666. Beasley’s conviction stems from actions she took while serving as finance director of the Louisiana Association of Community Action Partners (LACAP), a non-profit organization that receives funding from the federal government’s American Recovery and Reinvestment Act Program. LACAP was established to organize and strengthen the 42 private and public Community Action Agencies (CAAs) in Louisiana. CAAs were established to address the effects and causes of poverty and to increase self-sufficiency among the poor. CAAs implemented many educational and health-oriented programs funded by the federal government. As finance director of LACAP, Beasley was responsible for overseeing the financial integrity of the organization, including the accounting and distribution of federal funds. Beasley admitted that, while working for LACAP, she used her position of trust to embezzle $50,858, funds that were to be used for computer software training and weatherization services. Beasley further admitted to using the funds for her personal entertainment. The investigation of this matter was conducted by the U.S. Department of Energy-Office of Inspector General and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Reginald E. Jones.
corruption LONDON—A former mayor of Martin, Kentucky; her daughter; and two other city employees have been indicted for engaging in a scheme to defraud the Social Security Administration (SSA) and to misapply federal funds. The federal indictment filed on Wednesday names former Martin Mayor Ruth Thomasine Robinson, 69; her daughter, Rita Christine Whicker, 42, who formerly directed the Martin Community Center; Ginger Michelle Halbert, 42, a volunteer city employee who worked closely with Robinson; and Ethel Lee Clouse, 68, the bookkeeper for the city. All four defendants have been charged with conspiracy to defraud the SSA, an agency of the United States; theft of Social Security disability benefits; and aggravated identity theft. Halbert, Whicker, and Robinson were also charged with misappropriating money from a federal program. The final count of the indictment charges Halbert with knowingly failing to report her employment and earnings to the Social Security Administration. According to the indictment, from 2006 until January 2013, Halbert, who purportedly worked on a volunteer basis, was secretly being paid with federal funds that were primarily intended for the Martin Community Center and the Martin Housing Authority. To conceal the scheme, the defendants allegedly arranged for the checks to be made payable to Halbert’s son. The indictment further alleges that Halbert, who was receiving Social Security disability benefits, intentionally failed to notify SSA of her earned income from the city of Martin. Under federal law, anyone who receives disability benefits is limited in the amount of money he or she can receive from another source and all income must be reported to the SSA so it can properly determine eligibility for benefits. Kerry B. Harvey, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky; Perrye Turner, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Guy Fallen, Special Agent in Charge, Social Security Administration, Office of the Investigator General, Office of Investigations; and Jack Conway, Attorney General of Kentucky, jointly made the announcement today. The investigation preceding the indictment was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Social Security Administration, and the Attorney General’s Office. The indictment was presented to the grand jury by Assistant United States Attorney Kenneth R. Taylor. The defendants’ appearance before the United States District Court has not yet been set by the court in Pikeville. The charges of conspiracy and Social Security fraud carry a maximum of five years in prison; the charge of misappropriating money from a federal program carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison; and the aggravated identity theft charge has a mandatory minimum penalty of two years in prison upon a conviction. The indictment of a person by a grand jury is an accusation only, and that person is presumed innocent unless proven guilty.
corruption NEW ORLEANS—Peter Galvan, 54, a resident of St. Tammany Parish and the former St. Tammany Parish Coroner, pled guilty today to one count of conspiring to steal government funds from the St. Tammany Parish Coroner’s Office, announced U.S. Attorney Kenneth Allen Polite, Jr. U.S. Attorney Polite stated, “Today’s guilty plea ensures that Peter Galvan will be punished for abusing the public trust for his personal gain.” Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, New Orleans Field Office, Michael Anderson stated, "This conviction clearly highlights the significant importance of the continuous engagement of the local citizenry to support law enforcement’s priority mission to address fraud, corruption, and betrayals of public trust." Special Agent in Charge of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation Gabriel Grchan stated, “We have worked hard with our federal partners to obtain the guilty plea entered today by Peter Galvan. IRS-Criminal Investigation is committed to pursuing the prosecution of public officers who misuse taxpayer dollars for their personal gain.” According to the factual basis, the bill of information to which Galvan pled guilty, and other documents filed in federal court: Galvan, a former elected official, earned annual or sick leave to which he was not entitled. However, with the assistance of another coroner’s office employee, Galvan received yearly payments for unused annual and sick leave, totaling $111,376 over a five-year period. Galvan, as a physician, individually contracted with the city of Slidell, Louisiana, to provide medical services for inmates of the Slidell City Jail. The contract was not with the St. Tammany Parish Coroner’s Office but with Galvan personally. However, Galvan conspired with another individual employed with the St. Tammany Parish Coroner’s Office to service this contract while the other individual was supposed to be working for and was being paid by the St. Tammany Parish Coroner’s Office. The coroner’s office employee was paid at least $50,000 in public funds to fulfill Galvan’s personal contract. Additionally, Galvan conspired with another employee of the coroner’s office to purchase a $9,170 generator for Galvan’s personal vessel, a life raft and life jackets for his personal vessel valued at $4,841, and a global positioning satellite receiver for his personal use valued at $2,395, all with St. Tammany Parish Coroner’s Office funds. Finally, Galvan used his St. Tammany Parish Coroner’s Office credit card to make purchases of meals and other personal items with his public credit card totaling $15,606 which were unrelated to the office’s business. Galvan faces a statutory maximum of five years in jail, a $250,000 fine, and restitution of twice his gain or twice the victims’ loss, whichever is greater. He is scheduled for sentencing on January 29, 2014 by U.S. District Court Judge Susie Morgan. The investigation of the St. Tammany Coroner’s Office is continuing. Mr. Polite praised the investigative work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation Division, and the State of Louisiana Legislative Auditor. The case is being handled by the Office’s General Crimes Unit. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Carter K. D. Guice, Jr. and Chandra Menon are in charge of the prosecution.
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, Acting United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, and George Venizelos, the Assistant Director in Charge of the New York Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, today announced that a federal jury in Hartford has found East Haven Police Officer Dennis Spaulding and former East Haven Police Officer David Cari guilty of conspiring to violate and of violating the civil rights of members of the East Haven community. The trial before U.S. District Judge Alvin W. Thompson began on September 23, and the jury returned its verdict today. “This prosecution and the jury’s swift and unambiguous verdict should send a very strong message that there is no place in law enforcement for anyone who abuses power or victimizes defenseless individuals,” stated Acting U.S. Attorney Daly. “No one is above the law, and no one is beneath the law’s protection. The illegal behavior detailed during the course of this trial chips away at the public’s trust in all members of law enforcement, the vast majority of whom serve honorably and bravely each and every day. I want to thank the FBI agents who have tirelessly investigated this matter and our prosecution team for achieving this successful result under especially difficult circumstances. Since these charges were announced, the East Haven Police Department, under the direction of the Justice Department, has made great strides to purge itself of unlawful and unethical behavior within it ranks and change the way it does business. It is our expectation that new policing policies will ensure that this kind of conduct is part of East Haven’s past, not its future.” “As Mr. Spaulding and Mr. Cari learned today, no one is above the law,” stated FBI Assistant Director in Charge Venizelos. “Law enforcement takes an oath to protect and serve our communities. We are, and rightfully should be, held to a higher standard. It is unconscionable when law enforcement, anywhere, breaks that vow. Today, these defendants find themselves guilty of violating the very rights for which this country was founded. There is no excuse for law enforcement who betrays the public’s trust.” According to the evidence presented during the trial, from approximately 2007 through 2011, Spaulding and Cari, together with other East Haven Officers, conspired to injure, threaten, and intimidate various members of the East Haven community in violation of their Constitutional rights. The defendant officers maintained and perpetuated an environment where the use of unreasonable force and unreasonable searches and seizures was tolerated and encouraged. Defendants Spaulding and Cari engaged in unlawful arrests and searches, including the baseless arrests of a Catholic priest and several Latinos who lived or worked in the community. Additionally, Spaulding used excessive force during arrests when victims were unarmed, neither resisting nor interfering with the police. Certain victims were particularly vulnerable because they were undocumented aliens and thus unlikely to raise objection to the abuse. The evidence at trial further revealed that Spaulding intimidated, harassed, and humiliated members of the Latino community and their advocates and conducted unreasonable and illegal searches at Latino-owned businesses. Trial testimony established that in November 2008, Spaulding used excessive force against an individual in the parking lot of a Latino-owned restaurant and bar. Spaulding then arrested the individual under false pretenses to cover up the assault and prepared a false report to justify the false arrest. Later, in January 2009 in the same parking lot, Spaulding and another officer arrested three individuals under false pretenses. Spaulding also prepared a false report to justify these arrests. In February 2009, the defendant officers illegally searched a vehicle parked outside of a Latino-owned grocery store. Inside the store, Cari then arrested a Catholic priest, who is also an advocate for Latinos, on false pretenses. The officers then conducted an illegal search of the back room of the store in an effort to unlawfully seize the store’s video recording equipment. In the days following the arrest, Cari drafted various false versions of an arrest report to cover up the false arrest of the religious leader. The jury found Spaulding and Cari guilty of one count of conspiracy against rights, which carries a maximum term of imprisonment of 10 years and a fine of up to $250,000. In addition, Spaulding was found guilty of one count of use of unreasonable force by a law enforcement officer, which carries a maximum term of imprisonment of 10 years and a fine of up to $250,000. Spaulding was found guilty of two counts and Cari of one count of deprivation of rights for making arrests without probable cause. Each of these counts carries a maximum term of imprisonment of one year and a fine of up to $100,000. Finally, Spaulding was found guilty of two counts and Cari of one count of obstruction of a federal investigation for preparing false reports to justify the false arrests. Each of these counts carries a maximum term of imprisonment of 20 years and a fine of up to $250,000. Judge Thompson has scheduled sentencing for January 21, 2014. Two other former members of the East Haven Police Department have been convicted as a result of the investigation. On September 21, 2012, Sergeant John Miller pleaded guilty to one count of violating an individual’s civil rights by using unreasonable force during the course of an arrest. On October 23, 2012, Officer Jason Zullo pleaded guilty to one count of obstruction stemming from his filing of a false police report in order to prevent a possible excessive force investigation. Miller and Zullo await sentencing. This matter is being investigated by the Civil Rights Squad of the FBI’s New York Field Office. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Krishna R. Patel and Senior Litigation Counsel Richard J. Schechter.
corruption PITTSBURGH—Former Pittsburgh Police Chief Nathan E. Harper pleaded guilty in federal court to charges of conspiracy and willful failure to file income tax returns, United States Attorney David J. Hickton announced today. Harper, 60, of Pittsburgh, pleaded guilty to five counts before United States District Judge Cathy Bissoon. “This case is about greed and the theft of taxpayer money for private gain,” stated U.S. Attorney Hickton. “Public officials, especially those who serve in law enforcement, have a responsibility to make governmental decisions in the best interests of the citizens, not themselves.” FBI Special Agent in Charge Gary Douglas Perdue added, “Investigating public corruption remains one of the FBI’s highest priorities. We will continue to pursue public officials who violate federal law.” “Each of us is responsible for filing correct and accurate tax returns,” said Special Agent in Charge Akeia Conner. “No public official gets a free pass to ignore the tax laws, and IRS-Criminal Investigation works diligently to ensure that everyone pays their fair share.” In connection with the guilty plea, the court was advised that Harper was the chief of the city of Pittsburgh Bureau of Police. From 2009 to 2012, he caused at least $70,628.92 in checks and cash received by the Special Events Office of the department to be diverted to two unofficial accounts at the Greater Pittsburgh Police Federal Credit Union. Using Visa debit cards, Harper obtained more than $31,000 in ATM withdrawals and debit purchases, all for his personal benefit. Harper also failed to file federal tax returns for the years 2008 through 2011. The total tax loss for all four years was $22,427. Judge Bissoon scheduled sentencing for February 25, 2014, at 10 a.m. The law provides for a total sentence of nine years in prison, a fine of $650,000, or both. Under the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, the actual sentence imposed is based upon the seriousness of the offense and the prior criminal history, if any, of the defendant. Pending sentencing, the court continued Mr. Harper on bond. Assistant United States Attorneys Robert S. Cessar and Lee J. Karl are prosecuting this case on behalf of the government. The Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation conducted the investigation leading to the indictment in this case.
corruption BRUNSWICK, GA—Pierce County Sheriff’s Deputy Randy Strickland, 55, was arrested on federal charges yesterday for his role in the trafficking of methamphetamine. Strickland had his initial appearance today in federal court in Brunswick, Georgia, before United States Magistrate Judge James E. Graham, where he was ordered detained without a bond. According to papers filed with the District Court, Deputy Strickland allegedly agreed to act as “security” for individuals he believed were dealing meth by acting as the lookout. Strickland’s drug activities allegedly occurred while he was in uniform and while he was driving his police vehicle. When Pierce County Sheriff Ramsey Bennett received information about Strickland’s apparent criminal activities, he immediately requested federal law enforcement assistance. United States Attorney Edward Tarver stated, "Police corruption leaves a permanent stain on the good work of our law enforcement community. Make no mistake that defendants who violate the trust of this community, law enforcement or otherwise, will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.” “This defendant took an oath to uphold the law and protect the citizens of Pierce County,” said ATF Special Agent in Charge Christopher Shaefer. “Instead, he is alleged to have betrayed the community he swore to protect. Corrupt officers unfortunately tarnish the badge worn proudly by the committed men and women of law enforcement. The success of this investigation would not have been possible without the dynamic level of law enforcement cooperation.” “The result of this arrest demonstrates the strong relationships HSI has established with our federal and local partners,” said HSI Special Agent in Charge Brock D. Nicholson, Atlanta, Georgia. “It is a disappointing day when we have to arrest a law enforcement officer in a position of public trust, but maintaining the integrity of our law enforcement system is of upmost importance.” Mark F. Giuliano, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated, “Public corruption matters in general continue to be the FBI’s highest investigative priorities due to the potential it has to erode public trust. When those corrupt and illegal activities involve a law enforcement official operating within the color of law, the FBI will address them with a greater sense of urgency. While these cases constitute a serious breach of trust by the official or officer involved, the public should be reminded that the vast majority of those working within the criminal justice system are dedicated to their sworn oaths of office. Furthermore, the public should be reassured that the FBI remains committed to working vigorously with our federal, state, and local partners to investigate such matters and hold these individuals committing such crimes accountable for their actions.” Pierce County Sheriff Ramsey Bennett said, “This is a situation where there are no winners. This gives the office of the sheriff a black eye and erodes the confidence of the public in law enforcement. As sheriff, I will not tolerate this type of conduct. I want to reassure the public that we will police ourselves as well as the general public.” The present charge against Strickland carries a maximum prison sentence of 40 years and a fine up to $5,000,000. Mr. Tarver emphasized that a criminal complaint is only an accusation and is not evidence of guilt. The defendant is entitled to a fair trial, during which it will be the government’s burden to prove guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. This case was investigated by ATF, HSI, FBI, and local law enforcement. Assistant United States Attorneys Greg Gilluly and Tania Groover are prosecuting the case on behalf of the United States. For additional information, please contact First Assistant United states Attorney James D. Durham at (912) 201-2547.
corruption The United States Attorney for the Southern District of Illinois, Stephen R. Wigginton, announced today that on October 17, 2013, Max R. Schauf, 56, of Bridgeport, Illinois, was sentenced to 18 months in prison, a $5,000 fine, and three years of supervised release after pleading guilty to three counts of mail fraud and one count of obstruction of justice in United States District Court in Benton, Illinois. The court also ordered Schauf to pay $54,288.74 in restitution to the city of Bridgeport. On November 6, 2012, Schauf, the then-mayor of the city of Bridgeport in Lawrence County, Illinois, was indicted along with Paul R. Kramer, of Vincennes, Indiana. At his plea, Schauf admitted that from July 2008 until March of 2011, he had engaged in a scheme to defraud the city of Bridgeport, as well as its residents by submitting false and fraudulent invoices, contracts, and bills for services and equipment. Schauf also admitted that on November 10, 2011, he had obstructed justice by telling another person to give false and misleading information to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) regarding the investigation into his (Schauf’s) fraudulent activities. Schauf’s co-defendant, Paul R. Kramer, pled guilty on March 20, 2013, to two counts of making false statements to the FBI and is scheduled to be sentenced in United States District Court on October 31, 2013. He faces up to five years of imprisonment, a $250,000 fine, and up to years of supervised release on each count. The case was investigated by agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Ranley R. Killian and William E. Coonan.
corruption WASHINGTON—Jonathan Womble, 37, a former corrections officer at the District of Columbia Jail, was sentenced on October 9, 2013, to 37 months in prison on a federal charge of conspiracy to commit bribery for accepting $400 in cash in return for smuggling drugs and other contraband into the facility, announced U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen, Jr. and Valerie Parlave, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office. Womble pled guilty in June 2013 in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. He was sentenced by the Honorable Reggie B. Walton. Upon completion of his prison term, Womble will be placed on three years of supervised release. According to the government’s evidence, the FBI received information in January 2013 that a corrections officer was providing narcotics and other contraband to an inmate at the D.C. Jail. An investigation revealed that the inmate was working with co-conspirators outside the jail to assemble, deliver, receive, and distribute narcotics intended for inmates at the jail and that they were paying an individual to get the drugs into the facility. On January 27, 2013, Womble met with one of the co-conspirators in the parking lot of a carry-out restaurant in the District of Columbia. The co-conspirator gave Womble a plastic bag, which contained a powdery substance consistent with heroin and marijuana. The bag also contained a cellphone, cellphone charger, and $400 in cash. Womble understood that the cash was in exchange for him getting the drugs, cell phone, and charger to the inmate in the jail. Two days later, he smuggled the items into the jail and provided them to the inmate. Plans were subsequently made for another delivery of contraband. However, on February 12, 2013, multiple bags of marijuana were discovered and intercepted inside Womble’s locker at the jail by the District of Columbia Department of Corrections and one of its K9s. The marijuana had been provided to Womble by a person who wanted it delivered to another inmate. Womble is among four corrections employees convicted of bribery since December 2012. In December 2012, Daishawn Goodson, a former corrections officer employed by the Corrections Corporation of America (CCA), pled guilty to taking money to smuggle contraband into the District’s Correctional Treatment Facility. She was sentenced to eight months of home detention. In March 2013, Jeremiah Moorman, a former corrections officer, was found guilty of accepting money under the promise of bringing contraband into the District of Columbia Jail. He was sentenced to two years of probation. Also in March 2013, April Johnston, a former corrections officer for the District of Columbia Jail, pled guilty to taking money to smuggle contraband into the facility. She was sentenced to three months in jail and six months of home detention and ordered to perform 100 hours of community service. In announcing the sentence, U.S. Attorney Machen and Assistant Director in Charge Parlave commended the work of the three agencies who jointly worked the case, including agents from the FBI’s Washington Field Office, an FBI task force officer from Metropolitan Police Department (MPD), and investigators from the District of Columbia Department of Corrections Office of Investigative Services and the Department of Corrections K9 Unit. Finally, they commended the efforts of those who worked on the case from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, including Paralegal Specialist Lenisse Edloe, Legal Assistant Angela Lawrence, and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Richard E. DiZinno and Christopher R. Kavanaugh, who prosecuted the case.
corruption ALBANY, NY—Town of Halfmoon Supervisor Melinda Wormuth appeared today before Magistrate Judge Randolph F. Treece in federal court in Albany to be arraigned on two felony charges, announced United States Attorney Richard S. Hartunian and Andrew W. Vale, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Ms. Wormuth, 46, of Halfmoon, New York, was charged yesterday in a sealed indictment, which was unsealed today at her initial appearance. Count one of the indictment charges Ms. Wormuth with accepting money in return for her official actions. Specifically, she is charged with having received $7,500 in cash, which was characterized as “consultant fees,” in return for using her official position as town supervisor and as a member of the Saratoga County Board of Supervisors to lobby for the legalization of professional Mixed Martial Arts. Count two of the indictment charges her with lying to federal investigators about legal advice she claimed to have obtained while accepting the consultant fees. If convicted, Ms. Wormuth faces up to 20 years in prison on count one and up to five years in prison on count two. She could also be ordered to pay a fine of up to $250,000 on each count. The charges are the result of an ongoing investigation by the Federal-State Anti-Corruption Task Force that includes the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the New York Attorney General’s Office, the Internal Revenue Service, the New York Comptroller’s Office, and others. United States Attorney Hartunian stated, “These charges are an example of the culture of corruption which has no place in New York State public offices. Citizens trust their public officials to behave ethically, and it is a travesty when this pubic trust is broken. I will continue to work with my federal and state partners to ensure that public officials uphold that trust and, when they don’t, are held accountable for their actions.” United States Attorney Hartunian also cited the cooperation of state and federal investigators in pursuing this investigation and the coordination of state and federal prosecutors in developing the specific charges brought today. Special Agent in Charge Vale stated, “Today’s arrest demonstrates the FBI’s commitment to the investigation of corruption at all levels of government. Together with our law enforcement partners, the FBI will continue to work to ensure that all those who participate in corrupt schemes, which erode our communities and defraud those they are entrusted to serve, are held accountable for their actions.” The prosecution is being handled by Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael Olmsted in Syracuse, New York. Press inquiries should be directed to Assistant U.S. Attorney Elizabeth Coombe. An indictment is a mere accusation, and the defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
corruption Former Detroit Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick, 43; contractor Bobby Ferguson, 44; and Bernard Kilpatrick, 72, have all been sentenced for their roles in the wide-ranging Detroit public corruption scandal, announced United States Attorney Barbara L. McQuade. McQuade was joined in the announcement by John Robert Shoup, Acting Special Agent In Charge of the Detroit Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Randall Ashe, Special Agent in Charge of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Criminal Investigation Division; Richard Weber, Chief of IRS-Criminal Investigation; and Barry McLaughlin, Special Agent in Charge, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development-Office of Inspector General. Kwame Kilpatrick was sentenced to 28 years in federal prison for using his position as mayor of Detroit and Michigan State House Representative to execute a wide-ranging racketeering conspiracy involving extortion, bribery, and fraud. Bobby Ferguson was sentenced to 21 years in federal prison for being the catalyst at the center of an extortion scheme that netted him millions of dollars in city contracts. Bernard Kilpatrick was sentenced to 15 months on a charge of subscribing false tax returns. The jury was unable to reach a unanimous decision on the racketeering conspiracy charge. United States Attorney Barbara L. McQuade stated, “This case is not so much about punishing for the past as it about shaping the future. These sentences will deter other officials from stealing from the people and will attract honest public servants to office.” In March, Kwame Kilpatrick was convicted by a jury of 24 counts of extortion, mail fraud, tax violations, and racketeering. The jury deliberated for about 14 days before returning the verdicts, concluding a five-month long trial before United States District Judge Nancy G. Edmunds. The evidence presented at trial established that Kwame Kilpatrick and contractor Bobby Ferguson participated in a racketeering conspiracy to financially enrich themselves, their associates, and their families by using the power and authority of Kwame Kilpatrick's position as mayor of Detroit, as well as his position as a member of the Michigan House of Representatives, to commit extortion, bribery, and fraud, and to defraud donors to nonprofit entities under the control of Kwame Kilpatrick and his associates, including the Kilpatrick Civic Fund, Kilpatrick for Mayor, and the Kilpatrick Inaugural Committee. At the heart of the conspiracy was a scheme to use the power and authority of Kwame Kilpatrick's office as mayor of Detroit to extort municipal contractors by coercing them to include Ferguson in public contracts and to rig the awarding of public contracts to ensure that Ferguson obtained a portion of the revenue from those contracts. Ferguson obtained at least $73 million in revenues from municipal contracts through this scheme, a portion of which he shared with his co-conspirators. Evidence showed that during Kwame Kilpatrick's tenure as a representative of the Michigan House and as the mayor of Detroit, Kwame Kilpatrick and Bobby Ferguson obtained more than half-a-million dollars from the state of Michigan and donors to non-profit entities they controlled, including the Kilpatrick Civic Fund, Kilpatrick for Mayor, and the Kilpatrick Inaugural Committee, under the false pretense that the money would be used to better the community or for campaign expenses when, in reality, the money was used for personal or other impermissible expenses, including vacations to luxury resorts, spa treatments, yoga lessons, and golf clubs. Further evidence showed that during Kwame Kilpatrick's tenure as mayor, he solicited and accepted payments and property valued at over $1 million from persons seeking business with the city or its General Retirement System or police and fire pension funds. Evidence was also presented that in return for the proceeds from the public contracts Ferguson received, Ferguson kicked back significant sums of cash, items of value, or other benefits to Kwame Kilpatrick. Further evidence was presented that during his tenure as mayor, Kwame Kilpatrick used more than $840,000 cash, derived from the conspiracy, to make deposits into his bank accounts, pay his credit card bills, purchase cashier's checks and clothing, and to repay loans. As a result of the lengthy and wide-ranging investigation into corruption in the city of Detroit, the government has obtained convictions from 32 other individuals. The investigation of this case was conducted by agents of the FBI, EPA-CID, and IRS-CID. The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Mark Chutkow, R. Michael Bullotta, Jennifer Blackwell, and Eric Doeh.
corruption TRENTON, NJ—A Hudson County, New Jersey man today admitted his role in paying bribes to a Bayonne public official for the public official’s assistance in securing projects funded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Joseph Arrigo, 45, of Bayonne, New Jersey, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Peter G. Sheridan in Trenton federal court to an information charging him with one count of paying bribes totaling approximately $65,000 to a Bayonne official who served as the director of Bayonne’s Department of Community Development. Arrigo also pleaded guilty to one count of theft and conversion of government funds in the amount of $40,000 and one count of submitting a false tax return for tax year 2011. According to documents filed in this case and statements made in court: Arrigo was the owner of Shadow Contracting LLC, a general contracting company in Bayonne. The Bayonne Department of Community Development (CBDCD) was a government agency that received funds from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) under a federal program that provided grants of up to $20,000 to low-income families to rehabilitate their homes and to repair conditions that were considered to affect their health and safety and their homes’ accessibility, energy efficiency, or code compliance. The CBDCD also provided these HUD funds under the same federal program to non-profit organizations for the same purpose. A Bayonne public official served as the director of the CBDCD and was responsible for reviewing applications for HUD grant funds from the city of Bayonne and awarding such funds to qualified applicants. In September 2010, the public official solicited cash payments from Arrigo in exchange for the public official’s assistance in awarding HUD grant funds from the city of Bayonne to Arrigo as the owner of Shadow Contracting. From September 2010 to February 2013, Arrigo made cash payments to the public official totaling approximately $65,000 in exchange for the public official’s assistance in awarding HUD grant funds from Bayonne to Arrigo that totaled approximately $426,000. In September 2011, Arrigo assisted another contractor by supplying with a bid on behalf of Shadow Contracting that was higher than the contractor’s bid to enable the other contractor to obtain HUD grant funds from the city of Bayonne. The contractor then submitted the two bids to the CBDCD, and, as a result of his collusion with Arrigo, the contractor fraudulently obtained $20,000 in HUD grant funds from the CBDCD. In December 2011, Arrigo caused the same contractor to provide Arrigo with a bid that was higher than Arrigo’s bid for the purpose of obtaining HUD grant funds from Bayonne. Arrigo submitted the contractor’s bid along with his own to the CBDCD and, as a result, fraudulently obtained another $20,000 in HUD grant funds from the CBDCD. Arrigo also made and subscribed a U.S. Individual Tax Return, Form 1040, for tax year 2011, which he did not believe to be true and correct as to every material matter, including approximately $151,993 in unreported income. The bribery and theft of government funds charges to which Arrigo pleaded guilty carry maximum potential penalties of 10 years in prison and maximum fines of $250,000. The charge of filing a false tax return, to which Arrigo pleaded guilty, carries a maximum potential penalty of three years in prison and a fine of $250,000. Sentencing is currently scheduled for February 3, 2014. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford in Newark; special agents of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Office of the Inspector General, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Christina Scaringi; and special agents of IRS-Criminal Investigation, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Shantelle P. Kitchen in Newark, with the continuing investigation leading to today’s guilty plea. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Jacques S. Pierre of the U.S. Attorney's Special Prosecutions Division and Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven G. Sanders of the office’s Appeals Division.
corruption FORT MYERS, FL—Acting United States Attorney A. Lee Bentley, III announces that on October 3, 2013, former Lee County Commissioner Tammara Ann Hall, a/k/a Tammy Hall (53, Cape Coral), pleaded guilty to wire fraud. She faces a maximum penalty of 20 years in federal prison. Her sentencing hearing is scheduled for January 13, 2014. According to the plea agreement, Hall was a Lee County commissioner running for re-election in the November 2010 general election. Between November 2009 and November 2010, Hall diverted and embezzled approximately $33,756 of donor contributions to the Tammy Hall campaign fund and used the money for personal expenditures unrelated to the campaign. Hall completed Florida Department of State campaign fund quarterly reports and failed to disclose that she had diverted campaign contributions to pay for personal expenses. She falsely represented the nature of the expenditures, which she made for personal purposes, or omitted certain campaign contribution checks from the quarterly reports. Hall stole from her campaign fund by transferring funds electronically from the campaign bank account to her personal bank account. She wrote checks from the campaign bank account and then deposited the checks into her personal bank account. She also deposited certain donor campaign contribution checks directly into her personal bank account. Hall used interstate wires to accomplish the electronic transfer of funds from her campaign account to her personal account at Wachovia Bank. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Jeffrey F. Michelland.
corruption Peter Galvan, 54, a resident of St. Tammany Parish and the elected St. Tammany Parish Coroner, was charged today in a bill of information with conspiring with two other individuals to steal money from the St. Tammany Coroner’s Office, announced U.S. Attorney Kenneth Allen Polite, Jr. The bill of information charges that as an elected official, Galvan did not earn annual or sick leave. However, with the assistance of another coroner’s office employee, Galvan received yearly payments for unused annual and sick leave, totaling $111,376 over a five-year period. Galvan, as a physician, individually contracted with the city of Slidell, Louisiana, to provide medical services for inmates of the Slidell City Jail. The contract was not with the St. Tammany Parish Coroner’s Office, but with Galvan personally. However, Galvan conspired with another individual employed with the St. Tammany Parish Coroner’s Office to service this contract while the other individual was supposed to be working for and was being paid by the St. Tammany Parish Coroner’s Office. The bill of information charges that the Coroner’s Office employee was paid at least $50,000 in public funds to fulfill Galvan’s personal contract. Additionally, Galvan conspired with an employee of the coroner’s office to purchase a $9,170 generator for Galvan’s personal vessel, a life raft and life jackets for his personal vessel valued at $4,841, and a global positioning satellite for his personal use valued at $2,395, all with St. Tammany Parish Coroner’s Office funds. Finally, the bill of information alleges that Galvan used his St. Tammany Parish Coroner’s Office credit card to make purchases of meals and other personal items with his public credit card totaling $15,606 which were unrelated to the office’s business. If he is convicted, Galvan faces a statutory maximum of five years in jail, a $250,000 fine, and restitution. U.S. Attorney Kenneth Allen Polite, Jr. reiterated that a bill of information is simply an allegation and that Dr. Galvan is presumed to be innocent, and he noted the investigation of the operation and personnel employed by the St. Tammany Coroner’s Office is continuing. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation Division, and the State of Louisiana Legislative Auditor. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Carter K. D. Guice, Jr. and Chandra Menon.
corruption CHARLESTON, WV—Mingo County Commissioner David Baisden pleaded guilty today to a federal extortion charge, U.S. Attorney Booth Goodwin announced. Baisden admitted to demanding that a Mingo County tire store sell him tires for his personal car at a deeply discounted price available only for government vehicles. When the store insisted that Baisden pay the same price an ordinary citizen would, he cut off its county business, costing the store tens of thousands of dollars since 2009. “Elected officials have to play by the same rules as everyone else,” said U.S. Attorney Booth Goodwin. “This defendant abused his power to shake down an honest business for special favors. It’s brazen, ugly corruption. Old-fashioned graft like this destroys public confidence in government. Citizens deserve better.” Among Baisden’s duties as county commissioner were serving as the county’s purchasing agent. In that role, he had the power to decide where the county purchased a wide range of goods and services, including tires for county vehicles. Until 2009, when Baisden joined the county commission and became purchasing agent, Mingo County bought its tires from the Appalachian Tire location in Williamson. In June 2009, however, only months after taking office, Baisden ordered a county garage employee to get him a set of tires from Appalachian for his personal vehicle. Baisden demanded that the store give him the special government price, which included a steep discount not available to private citizens. He threatened to terminate the store’s county business if it refused and ultimately retaliated against Appalachian by moving the county’s lucrative tire business elsewhere. Baisden, 66, has been a member of the Mingo County Commission since 2009. Prior to his election as a county commissioner, he was Mingo County’s assessor. Baisden’s plea agreement with the Office of the U.S. Attorney requires him to resign from the county commission and never seek elective office again. United States District Court Judge John T. Copenhaver, Jr. presided over today’s plea hearing and will sentence Baisden on January 14, 2014. Baisden faces a maximum of 20 years in prison, although non-binding federal sentencing guidelines call for a significantly lower sentence. The Federal Bureau of Investigation and the West Virginia State Police are conducting the investigation. Counsel to the United States Attorney Steven Ruby and Assistant United States Attorney Haley Bunn are handling the prosecution.
corruption CHICAGO—An officer with the Lyons Police Department (LPD) whose duties included investigating the sale of contraband and counterfeit cigarettes has been charged with robbing and extorting targets of his investigations. The charge was announced today by Robert J. Shields, Jr., Acting Special Agent in Charge of the Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and Gary S. Shapiro, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois. Jimmy J. Rodgers, 43, was charged in a one-count criminal complaint filed Thursday in U.S. District Court in Chicago with Hobbs Act robbery, a felony offense. The complaint was unsealed following Rodgers’s court appearance Friday before U.S. Magistrate Judge Geraldine Soat Brown. Rodgers was released pending his next court appearance, which has not yet been scheduled. According to the complaint, Rodgers, who was also assigned to a Food and Drug Administration (FDA) task force, recruited a cooperating source to assist in setting up transactions in which the source would sell contraband cigarettes to potential targets. The complaint states that Rodgers agreed to pay the source a fee for each transaction the source conducted. The complaint describes two such transactions between the source and targets, for which the source was provided a Village of Lyons check to pay for his services. The complaint alleges the source engaged in subsequent transactions and was paid in cash from money paid to the source during the transactions. The transactions between the source and Rodgers were reported by the source to the FBI last June. At the direction of the FBI, the source recorded conversations and meetings with Rodgers in connection with another contraband cigarette transaction with a potential target. The complaint alleges that on July 30, the source received $11,280 from the target in exchange for 300 cartons of cigarettes and was told by Rodgers to keep $3,280 of that amount. The source was also given 30 cartons of cigarettes to pass to another source, who helped arrange the transaction with the target. In a recorded meeting a few days later, Rodgers allegedly acknowledged that he was not supposed to pay the source from the proceeds of the transactions and instructed the source to say that all payments to the source were by way of a check from the police department. An FBI agent subsequently reviewed the report of the July 30 transaction filed by Rodgers and noted that the report did not mention the seizure of cash from the target. LPD had no record of Rodgers turning in $8,000 from the transaction. Mr. Shields expressed his gratitude for the substantial assistance provided by both the Lyons Police Department and the FDA’s Office of Criminal Investigations during the course of this investigation. If convicted of the charge filed against him, Rodgers faces a maximum penalty of 20 years in federal prison. The public is reminded that a complaint is not evidence of guilt and that defendants in a criminal case are presumed innocent until proven guilty in a court of law.
corruption The former deputy chief information officer of the Wayne County government was sentenced to prison today for taking $13,000 in cash from a businessman who had contracts with Wayne County, U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade announced today. McQuade was joined in the announcement by Acting Special Agent in Charge John Robert Shoup, Federal Bureau of Investigation. During a hearing today before U.S. District Judge Stephen J. Murphy, III, David Edwards, 43, of Detroit, Michigan, was sentenced to 12 months and one day in prison, a $4,000 fine, and a term of supervised release based on his plea of guilty to accepting illegal gratuities. Edwards, a political appointee in the Wayne County government, had accepted payments of $6,000 and $7,000 in cash between 2009 and 2011 from a county information technology contractor. Five Wayne County officials have been convicted of corruption or obstructing justice. Defendant Zayd Allebban was sentenced to 41 months in prison on September 6, 2013. The other three convicted defendants, Tahir Kazmi, Michael Grundy, and Keith Griffin, await sentencing. United States Attorney McQuade said, "The court’s sentence today sends a strong message that public officials who use their positions of trust to personally profit will be punished. Public officials should serve the interests of the people, not their own.” The case was investigated by agents of the FBI. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney David A. Gardey.
corruption A former police officer in Alorton and Fairmont City who also served as a trustee of the Commonfields of Cahokia Public Water District and as the Alorton Director of Public Safety, pleaded guilty in federal district court to wire fraud and tax evasion on September 25, 2013, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of Illinois, Stephen R. Wigginton, announced today. Harry A. Halter, Jr., also known as “Dink,” 53, of Cahokia, Illinois, waived his right to face a grand jury indictment and pled guilty to charges brought directly by the U.S. Attorney’s Office. Halter was convicted for financial crimes related to a towing business Halter owns. Documents filed in U.S. District Court established that Halter owned and operated Town & Country Towing, located in Alorton, Illinois. In 2009, Halter received a grant of $24,990 in tax increment financing (TIF) towards the construction of a new fence to surround the perimeter of his tow yard. However, Halter’s wire fraud conviction came after he misapplied $19,057.62 of those funds to pay personal expenses—such as credit cards and expenses at Kinkaid Village Marina for personal recreational boating expenses. Halter was convicted of tax evasion for using his business to pay personal expenses, conducting personal and business transactions through the extensive use of cash, paying employees in cash and not reporting their wages to the IRS, by not keeping accurate records of business transactions, and other acts of concealing his true income from the IRS for the purpose of limiting his tax liability. This criminal conduct allowed Halter to avoid paying at least $128,719 in federal income taxes that he otherwise would have been required to pay. Halter agreed to make full restitution to the IRS and the village of Alorton as a condition of his guilty plea. Both the St. Clair County State’s Attorney and the United States Attorney have investigated and prosecuted Halter for separate crimes. Halter was convicted of official misconduct in state court on April 4, 2013, after compelling a female motorist to perform oral sex to avoid arrest in 2008. Evidence at that hearing showed that Halter made that traffic stop in the early morning hours outside his jurisdiction after he had been drinking. Wire fraud is punishable by not more than 20 years in prison and/or a $250,000 fine or both and not more than three years of supervised release following any term in prison. Tax evasion is punishable by not more than five years in prison and/or a $100,000 fine and not more than three years of supervised release following any prison term. However, the United States Sentencing Guidelines must be applied to the case and considered by the court during sentencing. Halter is scheduled to be sentenced in U.S. District Court on January 9, 2014. The investigation was conducted by agents from the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigations and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Steven D. Weinhoeft.
corruption ROME, GA—Joshua Lamar Greeson has been sentenced to 10 months in prison for obstructing a public corruption investigation. “This defendant took an oath to uphold the law and protect the citizens of Murray County,” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. “Instead, he lied to GBI agents investigating an ongoing public corruption case, betraying the community he swore to protect.” Mark F. Giuliano, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated, “The criminal conduct of former Murray County Deputy Sheriff Greeson is unconscionable and unthinkable for those serving faithfully within the criminal justice community. Today’s sentencing of Greeson will provide many opportunities for him to reflect on those actions and to serve as notice to others that this conduct will not be tolerated.” According to United States Attorney Yates, the charges, and other information presented in court: In April 2012, a citizen of Murray County, Georgia had a meeting with then-Chief Magistrate Judge Bryant Cochran related to a legal matter. The citizen claimed that during that meeting, Mr. Cochran made inappropriate sexual overtures towards her. In the days and weeks following the complaint, then-Judge Cochran called several local police officers to pass along a "tip" that the citizen carried drugs in her white Dodge vehicle. On August 9, 2012, Cochran called Greeson, who at the time was a deputy with the Murray County Sheriff's Department. Five days after the call, on August 14, 2012, Greeson conducted a traffic stop of the white Dodge vehicle. During the traffic stop, Greeson found methamphetamine in a metal can hidden under the tire well of the car. After locating the drugs, Greeson arrested the driver, as well as the citizen who was the owner of the vehicle sitting in the front passenger seat. On August 15, 2012, Greeson met with a Superior Court Judge to obtain a search warrant for a urine sample from the citizen. During the meeting, Greeson falsely stated to the judge, in sum and substance, that he had not received any prior information about the white Dodge vehicle prior to stopping it. Shortly thereafter, the GBI received information that the drugs had been planted on the vehicle by another individual in an attempt to falsely inculpate the citizen. As a result of that information, the local district attorney’s office dismissed the charges against the citizen. GBI agents interviewed Greeson on August 23, 2012, in connection with an investigation of public corruption and civil rights violations. During the interview, Greeson falsely stated to the GBI agents that he had not received any information about the white Dodge car before he pulled it over. He met with the GBI for a second interview on August 27, 2012. During this meeting, Greeson admitted to the GBI that he had lied—in that prior to stopping the white Dodge he had, in fact, been provided with information that the vehicle was supposed to be carrying drugs. Greeson, 26, of Chatsworth, Georgia, was convicted on these charges after pleading guilty on April 12, 2013. On August 29, 2012, he was terminated from the Murray County Sheriff’s Department. United States District Judge Harold L. Murphy sentenced him to 10 months in prison to be followed by one year of supervised release. This case was investigated by special agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Georgia Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorneys Michael Herskowitz and Jeffrey W. Davis prosecuted the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Presse-mails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Rome Division is http://www.justice.gov/usao/gan/.
corruption CHICAGO—William Beavers, a former Cook County Commissioner and, before that, a longtime Chicago alderman and police officer, was sentenced today to six months in prison for obstructing the Internal Revenue Service and failing to report and pay taxes on all his income. Beavers was convicted after a trial in March of concealing his under-reporting of income and underpayment of taxes on thousands of dollars that he converted to personal use from his campaign accounts, as well as from his county discretionary spending account. Between 2006 and 2008, Beavers wrote 100 checks to himself, totaling approximately $226,000, from three separate campaign accounts and used at least a portion of those funds for personal purposes, including gambling. In 2006, he used more than $68,000 from a campaign account to boost his city pension, and between 2006 and 2008, he used his $1,200 monthly county contingency account, totaling $28,800, for personal purposes without reporting any of these funds as income on his federal tax returns. Beavers, 78, of Chicago, was also fined $10,000 and ordered to pay $30,848 in restitution to the IRS by U.S. District Judge James Zagel. Beavers was ordered to begin serving his sentence on December 2, to be followed by a year of supervised release. During supervised release, the judge ordered Beavers to perform 400 hours of community service and prohibited him from gambling or visiting a casino or racetrack. “Far from being the victim of others’ poor advice, Beavers was a victim of his own greed,” prosecutors wrote in a sentencing memo. “[H]is public claims that he was charged not because of his tax fraud, but rather as a result of government vindictiveness, were yet another effort to shift blame away from himself and point the finger at others.” Beavers was elected to the Cook County Board of Commissioners, representing the 4th District, in November 2006 and began serving as a commissioner a month later. Previously, he served as the 7th Ward alderman on Chicago’s City Council from 1983 until November 2006, when he was elected to the commissioner’s post. According to the evidence at trial, Beavers had sole authority over three campaign committees that supported his political activities―Citizens for Beavers, Friends of William Beavers, also known as Friends for William Beavers, and 7th Ward Democratic Organization. As part of the corrupt endeavor to obstruct the IRS, Beavers converted campaign funds for his own personal use, provided false information to his campaign treasurers regarding the use of these funds, and understated his income and the taxes he owed in his individual income tax returns for 2006, 2007, and 2008. While giving Beavers credit at face value for every explanation for the use of campaign funds, no matter how implausible, the government presented evidence at trial showing that between 2006 and 2008, he failed to report income totaling at least $127,747 and failed to pay taxes on that amount totaling $40,463. During those three years, Beavers caused his campaign committees to issue checks payable to himself and to third parties on his behalf, and he used at least part of the proceeds for personal expenses, including gambling. The checks totaled about $96,000 in 2006, $69,300 in 2007, and $61,000 in 2008, for a total of $226,300. As part of the corrupt endeavor, Beavers concealed his personal use of campaign funds by maintaining and causing campaign workers to maintain records that falsely reflected the uses of the campaign checks, including records used to prepare semi-annual Illinois campaign finance reports known as D-2s. Beavers caused campaign workers to falsely record, on check stubs and other records, that certain campaign checks written to him and used for personal purposes were instead used for campaign expenses. In some instances, Beavers attempted to conceal his personal use of campaign funds by telling campaign workers that checks payable to and cashed by him were for paying campaign- related expenses, even though those expenses were not incurred by the campaign committees until months after Beavers had converted the funds. In other instances, Beavers withheld from his campaign staff any explanation of certain checks payable to him, or he caused workers to falsely record that certain checks were “void” or unused even though he had cashed them. On November 14, 2006, Beavers caused a check for $68,763.07 to be paid from Citizens for Beavers to the Municipal Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago, a pension plan for certain city of Chicago employees, including aldermen, to increase his monthly pension from $2,890 to $6,541. The check was for personal use and should have been, but was not, reported as income on his 2006 income tax return. The sentence was announced by Gary S. Shapiro, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois; James C. Lee, Special Agent in Charge of the Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation Division in Chicago; and Robert J. Shields, Jr., Acting Special Agent in Charge of the Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The government was represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Matthew Getter, Samuel B. Cole, and Carrie Hamilton.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, and Michael B. Steinbach, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office, announce that David McLean, 50, a suspended city commissioner for the city of Margate and board member on the Margate Community Redevelopment Agency (MCRA) Board was convicted by a Ft. Lauderdale federal jury on September 24, 2013, of federal bribery charges. McLean was convicted on counts two and three of a three-count indictment charging him with bribery in a program receiving federal funds, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 666. McLean was acquitted of the charges in count one. According to the allegations in the indictment and the evidence presented at trial, on November 2, 2012, McLean accepted $3,000 in cash in exchange for his influence in connection with a $25,000 MCRA construction grant (count two). On January 30, 2013, McLean accepted another $2,000 in cash in exchange for his influence in connection with the $25,000 MCRA construction grant. The defendant faces a maximum statutory term of 10 years in prison, a $250,000 fine, and restitution as to each of the two counts. Sentencing is scheduled for December 6, 2013, before U.S. District Judge James Cohn in Ft. Lauderdale. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Neil Karadbil.
corruption ST. THOMAS, US—Roberto Tapia, former director of the Environmental Enforcement Division of the Virgin Islands Department of Planning and Natural Resources (DPNR), pleaded guilty today in federal district court to using DPNR as a criminal enterprise to engage in illegal drug trafficking activities, announced United States Attorney Ronald W. Sharpe; Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Special Agent in Charge Carlos Cases; U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) Special Agent in Charge Vito Guarino; Virgin Islands Police Commissioner Rodney Querrard; United States Marshal for the District of the Virgin Islands Cheryl Jacobs; Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation Division (IRS-CI) Acting Special Agent in Charge Michael J. DePalma; U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) Special Agent in Charge Angel Melendez; U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Special Agent in Charge Marcelino Borges; and United States Coast Guard Captain Drew Pea. Tapia, 55, was arrested on May 17, 2013, and charged with conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute cocaine and possession of a firearm in furtherance of drug trafficking. On September 12, 2013, he was charged in a 34-count second superseding indictment, along with six other defendants, including Virgin Islands Police Officer Angelo Hill, Raymond Brown, Hector Alcenio, Edwin Monsanto, Stephen Torres, and Eddie Lopez-Lopez. The indictment and plea followed an extensive investigation conducted by the Federal Public Corruption Task Force, which culminated with the arrest of Tapia while in possession of seven kilograms of cocaine. “Public corruption victimizes every law-abiding resident of the Virgin Islands,” U.S. Attorney Sharpe said. “This individual chose to abuse his position of trust as a law enforcement officer for selfish gain at the expense of the safety and welfare of the community. The USAO is committed to fighting public corruption and will continue to target individuals who undermine the public trust.” In entering his plea of guilty to racketeering before District Court Judge Curtis V. Gomez, Tapia admitted to extensive cocaine trafficking activities over a substantial period of time and utilizing his position with and assets of DPNR to facilitate those activities. Tapia faces a maximum penalty of life in prison and up to $250,000 in fines, in addition to forfeiture penalties and restitution. Sentencing has been scheduled for January 9, 2014, before Judge Gomez. United States Attorney Sharpe commended the work of the Public Corruption Task Force and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Kim R. Lindquist and Kelly B. Lake, who are prosecuting this case.
corruption Linda Heyde, 59, of Marion, Illinois, was sentenced today in federal court to 24 months in prison, to be followed by three years of supervised release, and ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $524,100.67 and a $300 special assessment, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of Illinois, Stephen R. Wigginton, announced. Heyde pled guilty to three counts of theft and embezzlement from a local government that receives federal funds. “The public should be able to rely upon employees of government just as they rely upon officials. This sentence should serve a reminder that public employment is a public trust. The citizens of Southern Illinois deserve no less,” said United States Attorney Wigginton. Heyde was employed as the manager of the city of Marion Water Department from 1996 through May 2012. After her theft of funds came to light, an audit was conducted that determined that there was over $500,000 in missing funds for a three-year period of May 2009 through April 2012. Linda Heyde admitted as part of the plea to embezzling funds from the city of Marion’s Water Department in each of those fiscal years but contested the total loss amount. The prosecution is the result of an investigation conducted by the city of Marion Police Department and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The prosecution was handled by Assistant U.S. Attorney Norman R. Smith.
corruption ATLANTA—Darrell Mathis has been charged with distributing marijuana and using and carrying a firearm in furtherance of a drug trafficking offense. “This defendant used his position as a police officer to openly violate the very laws that he was sworn to uphold,” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. “Selling marijuana out of his police car while wearing a badge and uniform is outrageous. This case is a reminder that no one is above the law.” Mark F. Giuliano, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated, “Allegations of law enforcement officers actually engaged in the distribution of drugs is a rare occurrence. When those allegations came to the FBI concerning Newton County Deputy Sheriff Mathis, the FBI swiftly took action. The FBI considers such allegations of criminal conduct by law enforcement officers to be a priority investigative matter and we continue to ask the public to contact their nearest FBI field office with information concerning such activities.” Ezell Brown, Newton County Sheriff, stated, “My office is completely cooperating with the FBI in this investigation. This is an embarrassment to the Newton County Sheriff’s Office, as well as law enforcement in general. Mr. Mathis has been placed on administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation." According to United States Attorney Yates, the charges, and other information presented in court: In April 2013, it came to the attention of the Federal Bureau of Investigation that Darrell Mathis, a deputy sheriff with the Newton County Sheriff’s Office, was engaged in distributing marijuana. From May through September 2013, Mathis sold various quantities of marijuana to a confidential source who was working with the FBI, as well as to an undercover FBI agent. On at least two occasions, Mathis sold marijuana from his marked patrol vehicle while wearing his Newton County Sheriff’s Office uniform. On August 8, 2013, Mathis sold one pound of marijuana to an undercover FBI agent. Following that sale, Mathis and the undercover FBI agent went to meet with another undercover FBI agent to discuss the sale of additional quantities of marijuana. Mathis brought his NCSO badge and his firearm to the meeting. During the meeting, Mathis told the undercover agent, whom he believed was a drug dealer, that he was a police officer, pulled out his badge, and stated, "Don't worry, I'm on your side." Mathis, 40, of Lithonia, Georgia, made his initial appearance before Magistrate Judge Russell G. Vineyard and was released on bond. He was arrested on September 19, 2013, when he met with the undercover agent in possession of one pound of marijuana. Mathis has been a sworn deputy sheriff with Newton County since December 2008. The charge of possession with intent to distribute and distribution of marijuana carries a maximum sentence of five years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000. The charge of using and carrying a firearm during and in relation to a drug trafficking offense carries a maximum term of life in prison and a fine of up to $250,000. Members of the public are reminded that a criminal complaint contains only allegations. The defendant is presumed innocent of the charges, and it will be the government’s burden to prove the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt at trial. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Jamie L. Mickelson is prosecuting the case. The U.S. Attorney’s Office in Atlanta recommends parents and children learn about the dangers of drugs at the following website: www.justthinktwice.com. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Pressemails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Atlanta Division is http://www.justice.gov/usao/gan/.
corruption CHARLESTON, WV—U.S. Attorney Booth Goodwin today charged Mingo County Circuit Judge Michael Thornsbury in a second conspiracy to deprive a Mingo County resident of his constitutional rights. In a court filing this morning, Goodwin alleged that Thornsbury conspired with other Mingo County elected officials to cover up evidence of illegal drug use and other misconduct by late Mingo County Sheriff Eugene Crum. Earlier this year, according to Goodwin, a Mingo County drug defendant began to provide the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) with information about misconduct by then Sheriff Crum, including illegal drug use and election law violations. The drug defendant is identified in today’s charging document as “G.W.” Crum learned that G.W., along with G.W.’s attorney, were providing information about Crum to the FBI. Crum and other Mingo elected officials, including Thornsbury, conspired to protect Crum and to stop G.W. from informing to the FBI. They arranged to offer G.W. a favorable plea deal if he would fire his attorney, who was assisting G.W.’s communication with federal authorities, and replace him with an attorney chosen by Crum and the other elected officials. In the face of this coercion, today’s charging document alleges, G.W. fired his attorney, which the officials involved believed would protect Crum from federal investigation and public embarrassment. Today’s charge was filed in a court document known as an “information.” A defendant may be charged through an information only with the defendant’s consent, so the filing of an information often indicates that a defendant has agreed to cooperate with prosecutors. The investigation is being conducted by the FBI and the West Virginia State Police. Counsel to the United States Attorney Steven Ruby and Assistant United States Attorney Haley Bunn are handling the prosecution. An information is only a charge and is not evidence of guilt. A defendant is presumed innocent and is entitled to a fair trial at which the government must prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption Donald R. Flack, 77, of Moro, Illinois, who served as the Moro Township dupervisor, pled guilty to wire fraud and structuring transactions to avoid reporting requirements today in federal court, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of Illinois, Stephen R. Wigginton, announced. Flack faces up to 20 years in prison on the wire fraud charge and up to five years in prison on the structuring charge. Both charges hold the possibility of a $250,000 fine and three years of supervised release after prison term. Sentencing is set for January 3, 2014. Evidence revealed in court showed that Flack was an elected official and employed as Moro Township supervisor since 2001. Moro Township is a governmental unit in Madison County, Illinois. As Moro Township supervisor, Flack was required to accurately report the finances of the township to the township board, to the township citizenry, and also to the Illinois Comptroller’s Office. In approximately 2006, Flack began unlawfully taking money in excess of his authorized salary from the Moro Township account believing that he could repay the money. Flack claims he borrowed the money to make a personal investment with a large return promised. Flack was planning to repay the township. Flack wrote checks to himself out of the township account disguised as “office expenses.” The amount of funds misappropriated is approximately $700,000. The prosecution is the result of an investigation conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation. The prosecution is being handled by Assistant U.S. Attorney Norman R. Smith.
corruption James S. Bedell, 57, the former chief of police of Edwardsville, Illinois, was sentenced today in federal court to eighteen months in prison, to be followed by three years of supervised release, an order of restitution in the amount of $136,800, and a special assessment fee of $400, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of Illinois, Stephen R. Wigginton, announced. On April 17, 2103, Bedell pled guilty to four counts of Embezzlement and Theft from the city of Edwardsville. “I am always saddened when a member of law enforcement is found to be engaged in illegal acts. I urge the public to remember that the vast majority of our men and women in blue are extremely honest, bright, and capable and that they put on their uniforms each day to serve the citizens, not knowing if they will come home at the end of their shift. It is for them and for all of us that I will not cease my efforts to expose and help punish police misconduct when it is found,” said United States Attorney Wigginton. James S. Bedell was employed as the director of Police and was also referred to as the chief of Police of the City of Edwardsville from approximately 2007 through October 5, 2012. As part of the plea, Bedell admitted that from July 2009 through September 2012, while chief for the City of Edwardsville, he unlawfully removed cash and money orders from a lockbox in the police department that contained vehicle impound fees. The city of Edwardsville charges a $300 fee for vehicles towed as a result of certain enumerated violations. The $300 administrative fee must be paid by cash or money order, and the paid administrative fee is revenue to the city that must be properly accounted for; therefore the funds received are not for the personal use of an employee of the city of Edwardsville. Bedell admitted as part of the plea that he converted some of the funds to his personal use, generally to support a gambling habit. The investigation was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Illinois State Police, with the assistance of the city of Edwardsville. The prosecution was handled by Assistant U.S. Attorney Norman R. Smith.
corruption Public Corruption: Courtroom for Sale Judge Gets Jail Time in Racketeering Case 09/19/13 In a case that exposed widespread corruption in a South Texas county’s judicial system—reaching all the way to the district attorney’s office—a former state judge was recently sentenced to six years in prison for taking bribes and kickbacks in return for favorable rulings from his bench. Abel Limas, 59, a lifelong resident of Brownsville, Texas, served as a police officer and practiced law before becoming a state judge in Cameron County in 2001. He served eight years on the bench, during which time he turned his courtroom into a criminal enterprise to line his own pockets. “The depth of the corruption was shocking,” said Mark Gripka, a special agent in our San Antonio Division who was part of the team that investigated the case. “What was more shocking was how cheaply Judge Limas sold his courtroom—$300 here, $500 there—in return for a favorable ruling.” There was plenty of big money involved as well. Limas received more than $250,000 in bribes and kickbacks while he was on the bench. He took money from attorneys with civil cases pending in his court in return for favorable pre-trial rulings, most notably in a case involving a Texas helicopter crash that was later settled for $14 million. Referring to an $8,000 payment Limas received in that case, our investigators listened on the telephone as he described the cash to an accomplice as eight golf balls. “Their code language didn’t fool anybody,” Gripka said. Evidence also showed that Limas made a deal with the attorneys in the helicopter crash case to become an “of counsel” attorney with the firm. He was promised an advance of $100,000 and 10 percent of the settlement—all while the case was still pending in his court. Listen Media  Abel Limas describes plot to accomplice. Transcript Over a 14-month period beginning in November 2007, investigators used court-authorized wiretaps to listen to the judge’s phone calls. “That’s when we really learned the scope of what he was doing,” Gripka explained. The judge’s nearly $100,000 annual salary was not enough to support his lifestyle, which included regular gambling trips to Las Vegas. In 2010, when Limas was faced with the overwhelming evidence against him, he began to cooperate in a wider public corruption investigation—and our agents learned that the Cameron County district attorney at the time, Armando Villalobos, was also corrupt. The investigation showed, among other criminal activities, that Villalobos accepted $80,000 in cash in exchange for taking actions that allowed a convicted murderer to be released for 60 days without bond prior to reporting to prison. The murderer failed to report to prison and remains a fugitive. Limas pled guilty to racketeering in 2011. By that time, he had helped authorities uncover wide-ranging corruption in the Cameron County judicial system. To date, 10 other defendants have been convicted by a jury or pled guilty as part of the FBI’s six-year investigation, including a former Texas state representative, three attorneys, a former investigator for the district attorney’s office, and Villalobos, who is scheduled to be sentenced next month on racketeering, extortion, and bribery charges. “During the course of this investigation, we interviewed over 800 people, including many local attorneys in Cameron County,” Gripka said. “We hope this case shows everyone that the government will not tolerate officials who violate the public trust. Fighting public corruption is a priority for the FBI,” he added, “and it is something we take very seriously.” Resources - Press release
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, Acting United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, and Rhonda M. Glover, Acting Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, announced that Joshua Nassi, 35, formerly of Fairfield, was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge Janet Bond Arterton in New Haven to 28 months of imprisonment, followed by one year of supervised release, for his role in a scheme to direct illegal campaign contributions into the campaign of a candidate for the U.S. House of Representatives. Nassi also was ordered to pay a $6,000 fine. “Seeking to gain an edge in a high-pressure congressional campaign, this defendant traded promises of legislative action in exchange for illegal campaign contributions,” stated Acting U.S. Attorney Daly. “His criminal behavior undermines the principles of transparency and fairness that are the bedrock of our electoral and political processes. We are confident that this prison term, along with those previously imposed in this case, send a clear message to campaign workers whose ethics may be tested.” “Good honest government, for the people and by the people, has no room for the actions of political insiders like Mr. Nassi, who was willing to trade influence over pending legislation in exchange for contributions to a federal campaign that he was steering,” stated Acting FBI Special Agent in Charge Glover. “The election process in this country is the very foundation of democratic society and the integrity of that process must be protected. Today’s sentence is appropriate and just and serves as notice that the FBI and the U.S. Attorney’s Office are fully committed to investigating and prosecuting corruption at all levels of government.” According to court documents and statements made in court, in August 2011, the state of Connecticut applied for a court order enjoining Roll Your Own (RYO) smoke shops from continuing to operate without complying with state law governing tobacco manufacturers. RYO smoke shops are retail businesses that sell loose smoking tobacco and cigarette-rolling materials and offer customers the option of paying a “rental” fee to insert the loose tobacco and the rolling materials into a RYO machine, which is capable of rapidly rolling large quantities of cigarettes. Customers did not pay a tax on the RYO cigarettes when rolled by the RYO machines, in contrast to cigarettes purchased over-the-counter. Fearing that the Connecticut General Assembly would enact legislation harmful to RYO smoke shop owners’ business interests during the 2012 legislative session, certain RYO smoke shop owners and their associates engaged in a scheme to direct conduit campaign contributions into the campaign of Christopher Donovan, a candidate for the U.S. House of Representatives. At the time, Donovan was also the speaker of the Connecticut House of Representatives. As part of the scheme, the co-conspirators recruited multiple individuals to serve as conduit contributors to the campaign. These individuals permitted checks to be written in their own names to the campaign and were then reimbursed with cash, thereby concealing the fact that RYO smoke shop owners were contributing to the campaign. At the time, Nassi was the campaign manager for the Chris Donovan for Congress campaign. In November and December 2011, participants in the scheme made four $2,500 conduit contributions to the Chris Donovan for Congress campaign. On approximately January 31, 2012, the campaign submitted to the Federal Election Commission (FEC) a report of campaign committee’s receipts and disbursements for the period October 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011. The report falsely stated the source and amount of the four $2,500 contributions that were received and deposited by the campaign committee during that time period. On April 3, 2012, Harry “Ray” Soucy, who had helped facilitate the scheme and was now cooperating with law enforcement, contacted Nassi and told him that RYO owners wanted to provide additional contributions to the campaign. That same day, the Connecticut General Assembly’s Joint Committee on Finance, Revenue, and Bonding voted in favor of Senate Bill 357, legislation that would have deemed RYO smoke shop owners to be tobacco manufacturers under Connecticut law, a designation that would have subjected RYO smoke shop owners to a substantial licensing fee and tax increase. Later that day, Soucy contacted Nassi again to state his displeasure with the vote. Approximately one week later, Soucy, RYO smoke shop owner Paul Rogers, and an FBI special agent working in an undercover capacity delivered four $2,500 checks in the names of conduit contributors to Nassi. On April 23, 2012, Nassi advised Soucy that one of the checks had bounced, and Soucy indicated that the contributor had been given cash to deposit. Nassi stated that the campaign needed the check by midnight the following day, and Soucy delivered a replacement check by that deadline. On May 2, 2012, the campaign submitted a fundraising report to the FEC stating that the four contributions given in April were from the conduit contributors when, in fact, they were not. Over the next two weeks, Nassi continued to advise Soucy on the status of the RYO legislation, and Soucy told Nassi that he would be delivering $10,000 if the legislation died. On May 9, 2012, the legislative session ended and the legislation had not been called for a vote by either chamber of the General Assembly. On May 14, 2012, Soucy provided Rogers with $10,000 in cash to be used to reimburse additional conduit contributors. Soucy then collected three $2,500 checks made payable to the Donovan for Congress campaign from conduit contributors and, at Nassi’s request, one $2,500 check from a conduit contributor that was payable to a political party. Soucy delivered the four checks to Nassi at a political event later that day. On May 16, 2012, Soucy informed the Donovan for Congress campaign finance director Robert Braddock that one of the contributions had been made in the name of an RYO shop owner and should not be deposited, and Braddock stopped the check from being deposited. Soucy then met Nassi and provided him with a replacement $2,500 check in the name of someone who was not affiliated with any RYO shops. On April 12, 2013, Nassi pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to make false statements to the Federal Election Commission and to impede the FEC’s enforcement of federal campaign finance laws. Rogers, Soucy, Braddock, and four others have also been convicted of charges stemming from this scheme. This matter is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Christopher M. Mattei and Eric J. Glover.
corruption PROVIDENCE, RI—Randolph Hurst, 50, of West Warwick Rhode Island, a former assistant district manager for the Social Security Administration in Rhode Island, has agreed to plead guilty to stealing the identity of a Coventry man and using the victim’s identity to fraudulently sell more than $160,000 worth of stock certificates belonging to the victim. Hurst has also agreed to plead guilty to failing to paying $61,999 in taxes owed to the IRS. According to a plea agreement filed with the U.S. District Court on Wednesday, Hurst will plead guilty to one count each of aggravated identity theft, transportation of stolen securities, and tax evasion; two counts of mail fraud; and three counts of filing a false tax return. A co-defendant in this matter, Justin Silveira, 29, of Coventry, has agreed to plead guilty to two counts of perjury and one count of obstruction of justice. It is alleged that Silveira lied to a grand jury that was investigating this matter. The plea agreements in this matter are part of a package plea agreement where both defendants must plead guilty or both agreements will be vacated. The plea agreements were announced by United States Attorney Peter F. Neronha; Cheryl Garcia, Acting Special Agent in Charge of the New York region of the U.S. Department of Labor, Office of Labor Racketeering and Fraud Investigations; Vincent B. Lisi, Special Agent in Charge of the Boston Field Office of the FBI; John Collins, Acting Special Agent in Charge of the Boston Office of the Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation; and Scott E. Antolik, Special Agent in Charge of the Boston Field Office of the Social Security Administration, Office of the Inspector General/Office of Investigations. According to court documents, including an indictment returned in this matter in November 2012, Hurst allegedly used personal identifying information belonging to the victim to open a joint account at Summit Brokerage Services in Providence in his name and in the name of the victim, without the victim’s permission. Hurst allegedly provided documentation to Summit purportedly authored and signed by the victim, requesting the deposit of two stock certificates owned by the victim. The victim claims he never authorized the deposit of the stock certificates and that he had not endorsed the stock certificates. It is alleged in court documents that in October 2010, without the victim’s knowledge, Hurst requested that Summit sell the stocks and issue a check in his name and in the victim’s name for $157,747.49, which represented a portion of the proceeds of the sale of the stocks, and that the check be sent by overnight courier to the Coventry address of Justin Silveira. It is alleged that on October 22, 2010, the check was deposited into a bank account owned jointly by Hurst and his wife. In addition, court documents allege that in October 2010, Hurst requested a check from Summit in the amount of $3,980.46, in his name and in the victim’s name, for the remaining proceeds from the sale of the stock and that it be sent to the same address in Coventry. On November 8, 2010, the check was deposited into a bank account owned jointly by Hurst and his wife. It is alleged that Hurst and his wife spent the proceeds of the sale of the stock, $161,727.95 on personal items and expenses. An indictment is merely an allegation and is not evidence of guilt. A defendant is entitled to a fair trial in which it will be the government’s burden to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. At sentencing, Hurst faces statutory penalties of up to 10 years in federal prison followed by a term of supervised release of up to three years and a fine of up to $250,000 for mail fraud; up to 10 years in prison followed by a term of up to three years of supervised release and a fine of up to $250,000 for transportation of stolen securities; up to three years’ imprisonment followed by up to one year of supervised release and a fine of up to $100,000 for filing a false tax return; up to five years’ imprisonment followed by up to three years of supervised release and a fine of up to $100,000 for tax evasion; and a mandatory consecutive sentence of two years in federal prison followed by up to one year of supervised release and a fine of up to $250,000 for aggravated identity theft. At sentencing, Silveira faces statutory penalties of up to five years in federal prison followed by a term of supervised release of up to three years and a fine of up to $250,000 for perjury; up to 10 years in federal prison followed by a term of supervised release of up to three years and a fine of up to $250,000 for obstruction of justice. The cases are being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Dulce Donovan. The matter was investigated by federal agents from the FBI; U.S. Department of Labor Office of Labor Racketeering and Fraud Investigations; Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation; and Social Security Administration, Office of the Inspector General/Office of Investigations. This law enforcement action is part of efforts underway by President Obama’s Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force (FFETF), which was created in November 2009 to wage an aggressive, coordinated, and proactive effort to investigate and prosecute financial crimes. With more than 20 federal agencies, 94 U.S. Attorneys’ offices, and state and local partners, it is the broadest coalition of law enforcement, investigatory, and regulatory agencies ever assembled to combat fraud. Since its formation, the task force has made great strides in facilitating increased investigation and prosecution of financial crimes; enhancing coordination and cooperation among federal, state, and local authorities; addressing discrimination in the lending and financial markets; and conducting outreach to the public, victims, financial institutions, and other organizations. Over the past three fiscal years, the Justice Department has filed more than 10,000 financial fraud cases against nearly 15,000 defendants including more than 2,700 mortgage fraud defendants. For more information on the task force, visit www.stopfraud.gov.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—Former Philadelphia Traffic Court Judge Robert Mulgrew, 55, of Philadelphia, pleaded guilty today to mail fraud and conspiracy to commit mail fraud in connection with a scheme to defraud the Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development (DCED). Mulgrew also pleaded guilty to filing a false tax return. Mulgrew and co-defendant Lorraine Dispaldo, who previously pleaded guilty, engaged in a scheme to fraudulently receive and misuse Pennsylvania state grant funds awarded to non-profit groups. Between 1996 and 2008, the DCED awarded hundreds of thousands of dollars in grants to two community groups with which Mulgrew and Dispaldo were associated. DCED awarded more than $450,000 in grants to the Friends of Dickinson Square (FDS) with the understanding that the grants were to be used to purchase equipment and materials for the maintenance of Dickinson Square Park at 4th and Tasker Streets, Philadelphia, and surrounding neighborhood revitalization. Mulgrew, the vice president of FDS, signed the FDS grant contracts with DCED. DCED also awarded approximately $397,000 in grants to the Community to Police Communications (CPC) with the understanding that the grants were to be used to purchase communications equipment for the police and to purchase materials to secure vacant lots and buildings. The defendants misrepresented their intentions to DCED, and that—contrary to their agreement to spend grant funds solely to purchase equipment and materials for neighborhood revitalization and improved communications with the police—the defendants used thousands of grant dollars to pay Mulgrew’s relatives and associates. They represented that they were paying for work done on behalf of FDS and CPC. After distributing grant funds to relatives and associates, the defendants supplied false and misleading information to DCED to conceal the actual amount of grant funds which they paid to the relatives and associates contrary to the express purposes of the grant. Mulgrew and Dispaldo spent thousands of dollars of grant funds for their own personal uses. Mulgrew improperly reimbursed himself from FDS funds for thousands of dollars of expenditures, which he claimed were incurred by FDS when they were not and for his expenditures for items not authorized under the terms of the FDS grants. Mulgrew and Dispaldo supplied DCED with false documents to conceal their own use of grant funds and other improper uses of the funds. Mulgrew did not report the additional income from the fraud scheme on his tax return and claimed false business deductions, which improperly reduced his tax liability. Mulgrew faces a maximum possible sentence of 23 years in prison, five years’ supervised release, restitution to the IRS, and restitution to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Dispaldo, who pleaded guilty in April, is scheduled for sentencing on November 25, 2013. The case was investigated by the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Paul L.Gray.
corruption PHOENIX—On September 16, 2013, Border Patrol Agent Aaron Anaya, 26, of Yuma, Arizona, was sentenced by U.S. District Court Judge Roslyn O. Silver to 60 months in prison. Anaya pleaded guilty to possession of a firearm in furtherance of a drug trafficking offense on April 10, 2013. “Stopping employee corruption is the OIG’s highest priority,” said Paul Leonard, Special Agent in Charge of the Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Inspector General. “We have zero tolerance for those who violate their oath of office and the American public’s trust.” Douglas G. Price, FBI Special Agent in Charge, Phoenix Division, stated, “Whenever a law enforcement officer engages in illegal activity, it erodes the public trust. The actions of a few tarnish the badge of those who protect us each day from harm’s way. Corruption by public officials at all levels is a top priority of the FBI, and we remain committed to holding corrupt law enforcement officers accountable for their illegal actions.” On the evening of December 2, 2012, Anaya was driving a fully marked U.S. Border Patrol vehicle and was on duty in his capacity as a Border Patrol Agent patrolling the U.S. international boundary with Mexico. Anaya stopped along the fence line, exited his USBP vehicle, and assisted three individuals on the Mexican side of the border in bringing large bales of marijuana over the fence and into the United States. A total of six bales were placed in the vehicle with a combined weight of 146.9 pounds. That same evening, Anaya’s vehicle, with the marijuana bales inside, was stopped by law enforcement, and Anaya was arrested. At the time of his arrest, Anaya was wearing a USBP-issued uniform and had his service-issued firearm secured in his holster. A USBP-owned automatic rifle was in the front passenger compartment of Anaya's USBP vehicle as well. Anaya admitted at his change of plea proceeding that he would have utilized one or both of the firearms, if necessary, to protect himself and the marijuana from rival drug traffickers if rival drug traffickers had sought to steal the marijuana before he delivered it to its next destination. The investigation in this case was conducted by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Inspector General, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The prosecution was handled by Howard D. Sukenic and Christina W. Covault, Assistant U.S. Attorneys, District of Arizona, Phoenix.
corruption CHICAGO―A federal jury today convicted a former Cook County official of steering four county contracts, each just under $25,000, to four acquaintances and then taking a portion of the contract payments as kickbacks from each of them, totaling $34,700. The defendant, Eugene Mullins, who was director of the Cook County Department of Public Affairs and Communications between March 2008 and November 2010, was found guilty by jurors who began deliberating Monday afternoon after a week-long trial in U.S. District Court. Mullins, 49, of Chicago, a former Chicago police officer, was convicted of three counts of wire fraud and four counts of accepting kickbacks. He was acquitted of one count of wire fraud. He faces a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison on each count of wire fraud and 10 years in prison on each count of accepting a kickback, and a maximum $250,000 fine on each count. U.S. District Judge Amy St. Eve scheduled sentencing for December 19. The judge must impose a reasonable sentence under federal statutes and the advisory United States Sentencing Guidelines. The four individuals who received county contracts and returned a portion of the payments to Mullins were each charged with misprision of a felony for concealing Mullins’ fraud and kickback scheme. Each of them entered into pretrial diversion agreements and were placed on probation, were ordered to pay full restitution to the county, and testified as government witnesses at Mullins’ trial. They are Gary Render, Michael L. Peery, and Clifford Borner, all of Chicago, and Kenneth Gregory Demos, of Oak Park. The verdict was announced by Gary S. Shapiro, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois; Anita Alvarez, Cook County State’s Attorney; Robert J. Shields, Jr., Acting Special Agent in Charge of the Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and Patrick Blanchard, Cook County Inspector General. The case stemmed from a state and federal corruption investigation that resulted recently in the state court conviction of Carla Oglesby, a former Cook County official, who also illegally steered county contracts under $25,000. Evidence at Mullins’ trial showed that between January 2010 and January 2011, he used his county position to submit and cause others to submit false documents to the county to assist the four vendors in obtaining professional and managerial service contracts and payment from the county. Mullins then solicited the individuals who obtained contracts for payments from the proceeds for his own benefit. Cook County contracts for professional and managerial services under $25,000 required approval only by the county purchasing agent and did not require approval by the county Board of Commissioners. In 2010, Mullins’ public affairs and communications department, as well as other county departments, had access to federal funds and county money to promote awareness and increase response rates by county residents for the 2010 U.S. Census, to promote awareness and assist residents impacted by floods in 2008 and to promote and increase energy efficiency and conservation. During 2010, Mullins schemed to fraudulently steer the following contracts: a $24,980 disaster grant contract to Render, who kick-backed $9,000 to Mullins; a $24,985 energy grant contract to Peery, who kick-backed $12,000; a $24,995 census contract to Borner, who kicked back $5,000; and a $24,997 census contract to Demos, who kicked back $8,700. Evidence also showed that Mullins steered an additional census contract for $24,390 to another individual and then solicited a portion of the proceeds. However, this individual instead returned the uncashed vendor check to the county. In each instance, Mullins told the individuals who received the contracts that he could arrange for a subcontractor to perform some of the work in exchange for a portion of the county payments they received. In fact, the money that Mullins received from the individuals was not used for any subcontracts. Instead, Mullins used it for his own benefit, while Render, Peery, Borner, and Demos performed little or no work for the county. To conceal the scheme, Mullins advised the contract recipients to falsely deny the circumstances surrounding the contracts if questioned by investigators. For example, he advised Peery not to say anything about paying him a portion of the contract in cash and advised Borner to claim ownership of the invoice submitted in support of his census contract. The government was represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Lindsay Jenkins and Sarah E. Streicker.
corruption TRENTON, NJ—A former Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) employee who worked as a supervisory engineer at the VA’s campus in East Orange, New Jersey today admitted accepting more than $1.2 million in kickback payments in connection with VA contracts awarded to companies with which he had relationships and to engaging in a scheme to defraud the VA by claiming one of those companies was owned by a service-disabled veteran when it was not, New Jersey U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Jarod Machinga, 43, of Hopewell, New Jersey, pleaded guilty today to an information charging him with one count of honest services wire fraud, one count of wire fraud, and one count of engaging in a monetary transaction in criminally derived property. Machinga entered his guilty plea before U.S. District Judge Mary L. Cooper in Trenton federal court. “When trusted with the important work of serving and honoring our nation’s veterans, Jarod Machinga took the opportunity to serve himself,” said U.S. Attorney Fishman. “Taking more than $1 million in kickbacks—including money meant for service-disabled, veteran-owned businesses—not only violates the law, it violates our sense of decency.” “Jarod Machinga’s criminal behavior violated the public trust, betrayed the best interests of disabled veteran entrepreneurs, and besmirched the reputations of the overwhelming majority of the employees in the Department of Veterans Affairs who are dedicated to serving veterans,” said Department of Veterans Affairs Inspector General George Opfer. “We will spare no effort to protect the interests of veterans and taxpayers in identifying and prosecuting those who seek to criminally enrich themselves by virtue of their employment.” According to documents filed in this case and statements made in court: In his position as a supervisory engineer, Machinga had the authority and influence to direct certain VA construction contracts to particular companies. Machinga partnered with a person—identified in the information as “Individual 1”—to set up three companies that could be used to obtain VA work and then directed more than $6 million worth of VA construction projects to those companies. Machinga admitted he accepted approximately $1,277,205 in kickbacks in exchange for his official action and influence between 2007 and July 2012. Congress has established a program through which certain VA contracts are reserved for small businesses that are owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans. One of Individual 1’s companies entered into such a contract with the VA after Machinga falsely represented to the VA that it was a service-disabled, veteran-owned small business—even though Individual 1 was not a veteran. Machinga then used his official position and influence at the VA to award such a contract to Company 1. The company was paid more than $3 million by the VA in connection with the contract. Machinga also admitted that for many of the projects awarded to Individual 1’s companies, he recruited other contractors to perform the work so the companies were able to keep the money paid to them without having to incur the expense of actually completing the projects. The two wire fraud counts each carry a maximum potential penalty of 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine or twice the gross gain or loss from the offense. The monetary transaction count carries a maximum potential penalty of 10 years in prison and a fine equal to the greatest of: $250,000, twice the pecuniary gain or loss or not more than twice the amount of the criminally derived property involved in the transaction. Sentencing is scheduled for January 15, 2014. U.S. Attorney Fishman praised special agents of the Department of Veterans Affairs, Office of Inspector General, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Jeffrey Hughes; the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford; and IRS-Criminal Investigation, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Shantelle P. Kitchen, for their work leading to today’s guilty plea. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Vikas Khanna of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division and Peter Gaeta of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Unit in Newark.
corruption BANGOR, ME—United States Attorney Thomas E. Delahanty, II announced today that a federal jury sitting in Bangor found Carole Swan, age 55, of Chelsea, Maine, guilty last night of three counts of extortion under color of official right. According to the court records, Carole Swan was a member of the Chelsea Board of Selectman. Between January 2010 and February 2011, she used her position to extort and attempt to extort $20,000 from Frank Monroe Construction, a local construction company that plowed, salted, and sanded Chelsea’s roads. The extortion charges each carry a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison, a $250,000 fine, and restitution. She will be sentenced after completion of a pre-sentence investigation report by the U.S. Probation Office. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Internal Revenue Service; Department Homeland Security, Office of Inspector General (OIG); U.S. Department of Labor, OIG, Office of Labor Racketeering and Fraud Investigations; U.S. Postal Service, OIG; and the Kennebec County Sheriff’s Office.
corruption DALLAS—Brent Dickey, 42, a former officer with the Alvarado, Texas Police Department, appeared in federal court today and pleaded guilty to an Information charging one count of misprision of a felony. He faces a maximum statutory penalty of three years in federal prison and a $250,000 fine. Dickey, a resident of Burleson, Texas, will remain on bond pending sentencing, which is set for January 8, 2014, before U.S. District Judge Ed Kinkeade. Today’s announcement was made by U.S. Attorney Sarah R. Saldaña of the Northern District of Texas. According to documents filed in the case, in February 2010, Dickey was assigned to the Stop The Offender Program-Special Crimes Unit (STOP-SCU), a Johnson County law enforcement task force that investigated drug crimes occurring in the county. Dickey knew that a particular individual, Person A, was unlawfully distributing anabolic steroids, and he failed to make this felony known to some judge or other person in civil or military authority under the United States, such as a federal grand jury or an FBI agent. On February 5, 2010, another STOP-SCU task force officer received information that Person A was unlawfully distributing anabolic steroids. This task force officer told Dickey that he planned to make a case against, and arrest, Person A. Unbeknownst to this task force officer, Person A had been supplying Dickey with anabolic steroids. Two days later, Dickey went to Person A’s home and leaked this law enforcement sensitive information to Person A so that Person A would avoid getting caught, arrested or prosecuted, for this felony drug offense. The FBI and the Texas Ranger Division of the Texas Department of Public Safety are investigating. Deputy Criminal Chief Assistant U.S. Attorney Gary Tromblay and Assistant U.S. Attorney J. Mark Penley are in charge of the prosecution.
corruption CHARLESTON, WV—Former Clay County Sheriff Miles J. Slack pleaded guilty today to illegal wiretapping, a federal felony, U.S. Attorney Booth Goodwin announced. Appearing today in federal district court, Mr. Slack, who resigned as sheriff last Friday as part of his plea agreement with Goodwin, admitted to surreptitiously installing a keystroke logger on a computer belonging to the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia. The compromised computer was a government computer assigned to Mr. Slack’s then-wife, Lisa Slack, who works in the office of a Clay County magistrate. Computers in the offices of circuit judges and magistrates throughout West Virginia are owned and maintained by the state’s Supreme Court and are connected to a central Supreme Court computer network. Mr. and Ms. Slack were in the midst of a divorce when he illegally tapped her computer. Mr. Slack admitted that he intended to monitor his ex-wife’s activity on the computer, including messages she sent through Internet chat and e-mail programs. He said he also wanted to capture his ex-wife’s usernames and passwords for various Internet services. Mr. Slack acknowledged that the wiretap device he installed captured everything that was typed on his ex-wife’s computer, including information about court business and the personal information of defendants in Clay County magistrate court. Mr. Slack installed the hidden device in late April of this year, and it remained in place for over two weeks. “It’s a shame that Clay County’s chief law enforcement officer chose to illegally tap a government computer,” said U.S. Attorney Goodwin. “Our elected officials and law enforcement officers have to respect the law like everyone else. If they don’t, there are consequences.” “These days, it seems like every detail of our lives is being bounced around the world on computer networks,” Goodwin continued. “Imagine learning that someone was secretly monitoring everything you did on your own computer, without any legal authority. It’s a very serious breach of privacy. That’s why the laws against wiretapping are so important.” Keystroke logging devices can be purchased from a number of Internet-based sellers. The devices, usually one to two inches long, are attached to a computer’s keyboard cable. Once installed, they can intercept everything typed on the keyboard, including e-mail and information transmitted to Internet sites. Because the devices are unobtrusive and normally hidden behind the computer targeted for surveillance, they can go undetected for long periods of time. Though small in size, some keystroke loggers can store two gigabytes of information, enough to record more than a billion keystrokes. Slack served as a Clay County deputy sheriff for around 16 years. In early 2012, while acting as chief deputy for the Clay County Sheriff’s Department, Slack announced he was running for sheriff. Then-Sheriff Randy Holcomb, however, quickly demoted Slack to the rank of sergeant, a move that threatened Slack’s election bid. Under West Virginia civil service laws, deputy sheriffs other than the chief deputy may not run for public office. In order to remain in the race, Slack resigned from the department and became Chief of Police for Clay, West Virginia, the county seat of Clay County. In the May 2012 primary election, Slack soundly defeated two other candidates for the Democratic nomination for sheriff, receiving nearly 78 percent of the vote. He ran unopposed in the November 2012 general election and took office January 1, 2013. Slack’s first projects as sheriff included expanding evening patrols and seeking funding for a new home confinement officer. The case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the West Virginia State Police, with assistance from the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia. The prosecution is being led by Counsel to the United States Attorney Steven Ruby. Slack faces up to five years in prison when he is sentenced on December 19, 2013, by United States District Judge John T. Copenhaver, Jr.
corruption NATCHEZ, MI—Paul Winfield, 40, former mayor of the city of Vicksburg, Mississippi, pled guilty in U.S. District Court today to bribery in connection with a pre-event disaster contract for the city of Vicksburg, announced U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis and FBI Special Agent in Charge Daniel McMullen. Winfield will be sentenced by U.S. District Senior Judge David C. Bramlette, III on November 19, 2013, at 9:30 a.m. and faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. In early 2012, while serving as the mayor of Vicksburg, Winfield met with a Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) source, where they discussed pre-event disaster contracts for the city of Vicksburg. On July 18, 2012, Winfield again met with the FBI source at a restaurant in Jackson. After dinner, Winfield and the FBI source met inside the source’s vehicle, and the FBI source asked Winfield what would need to be done in order for the source’s company to get the pre-event disaster contract. Winfield responded “Ten” and held up 10 fingers, signifying $10,000. The FBI source asked Winfield if the FBI source could pay $5,000 now and $5,000 once the contract was awarded. Winfield agreed, and the FBI source paid Winfield $5,000 cash in the vehicle at that time. On August 17, 2012, the FBI source met with Winfield in Natchez, Mississippi, where he paid Winfield an additional $2,000 in cash and asked if another $3,000 would be enough. The source then promised Winfield another $3,000 after the pre-event disaster contract was awarded. As part of his plea agreement, Winfield agreed to forfeit the bribe money he accepted, and he also agreed to neither run for elected public office nor apply for or be employed by any governmental entity in the future. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Mike Hurst.
corruption BUFFALO, NY—U.S. Attorney William J. Hochul, Jr. announced today that Franklin Lopez, 33, of Buffalo, New York, was charged by criminal complaint with stealing thousands of dollars from the city of Buffalo, a governmental agency which receives federal funding. The charge carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison, a fine of $250,000, or both. Assistant U.S. Attorney Maura K. O'Donnell, who is handling the case, stated that the defendant was employed part time as a coin collector for in the city of Buffalo Department of Parking Enforcement between 2003 and 2011. In this capacity, Lopez was responsible collecting coins deposited into parking meters. According to the complaint, on August 16, 2011, Buffalo Police found over $1,300 in coins inside the defendant’s work vehicle, money that was supposed to be deposited into the city treasury. Further investigation, including a review of Lopez’s banking records, revealed a substantial amount of cash deposits. In addition, the defendant made significant cash payments, including a $10,000 down payment on a car and the purchase of two boats, a jet ski, and a mo-ped. The complaint further stated that other employees of the department were aware of the defendant’s actions. Lopez will have an initial appearance this afternoon at 1:00 p.m. before U.S Magistrate Judge Jeremiah J. McCarthy. Lopez is the third employee of the Department of Parking Enforcement to be charged in this case. James Bagarozzo was convicted of stealing over $200,000 from Buffalo parking meters and sentenced to 30 months in prison on August 16, 2013. Bagarozzo was also ordered to pay $210,000 in restitution. Lawrence Charles has also been convicted of stealing over $10,000 from Buffalo parking meters and is awaiting sentencing. The arrests are the culmination of an investigation on the part special agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Brian P. Boetig, and the Buffalo Police Department, under the direction of Commissioner Daniel Derenda. The fact that a defendant has been charged with a crime is merely an accusation, and the defendant is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty.
corruption WASHINGTON—A former mayor of South Pittsburg, Tennessee, and a co-conspirator pleaded guilty today in Chattanooga, Tennessee, to conducting an illegal gambling business, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and Special Agent in Charge Kenneth Moore of the FBI’s Knoxville, Tennessee Field Office. Former South Pittsburg Mayor James Michael Killian, 56, and Robert Barry Cole, 53, both of South Pittsburg, pleaded guilty today before U.S. District Judge Curtis L. Collier in the Eastern District of Tennessee to criminal informations charging them each with one count of conducting an illegal gambling business. According to court documents, Killian was mayor of South Pittsburg from 2005 until 2012. During that time, Killian conducted a gambling operation that involved video gambling machines located at a convenience store he owned in South Pittsburg. Killian also managed an “outlaw” lottery, in which bettors placed illegal bets on legal state lotteries. In addition, Killian ran an illegal sports betting ring in partnership with Cole. Cole received sports bets, collected wagers, and paid successful bettors their winnings, and Killian and Cole split the proceeds of the operation. At sentencing, scheduled for January 9, 2013, Killian and Cole both face up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Killian is subject to criminal forfeiture of $38,475, four computers, and 12 video gambling machines. Cole is subject to criminal forfeiture of $19,020, a ring appraised at $17,500, and two computers. This case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Mark Angehr, Barak Cohen, and Peter Sprung of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and is being investigated by the FBI.
corruption FRANKFORT, KY—Former Kentucky Department of Agriculture Commissioner Richard Dwight Farmer, Jr. admitted in federal court today that he misappropriated public resources during his tenure in office. Farmer pleaded guilty to two counts of theft from a program receiving federal funds. Farmer entered into an agreement with the U.S. Attorney’s office which, if approved by the court, will require him to serve a prison sentence of 21 to 27 months. Additionally, Farmer agreed to pay $120,500 in restitution to the commonwealth of Kentucky. Judge Gregory Van Tatenhove released Farmer on his own recognizance until his sentencing hearing on January 14, 2014. Farmer admitted that he misappropriated a total of $120,500 by hiring friends who did not perform work to justify their salaries and by purchasing a number of items for his personal use with KDA funds. Specifically, Farmer admitted that in 2008 he used approximately $19,500 in KDA money to buy excessive gifts for a KDA sponsored conference. Farmer purchased rifles, rifle cases, knives, and gift cards, purportedly for use at the conference that he actually appropriated to his own use. Farmer further acknowledged that in both 2008 and 2011, he misappropriated thousands of dollars in labor cost by putting friends on the public payroll, knowing they would perform little or no actual work for the KDA. “Mr. Farmer admitted today that he engaged in a course of criminal conduct which constitutes an egregious abuse of the public trust,” said United States Attorney Kerry B. Harvey. “The people of Kentucky deserved better from Mr. Farmer. I hope that his acknowledgement of guilt will, in some small way, begin to repair the inevitable damage done when an elected official uses his public office to enrich himself through a criminal scheme. I appreciate the excellent work of the prosecutors and law enforcement officers who did the work necessary to bring this matter to a successful conclusion.” Farmer was elected to two terms as Commissioner of Agriculture and was responsible for the supervision and administration of the KDA from January 2004 until January 2012. A federal grand jury indicted Farmer in April this year. Kerry B. Harvey, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky; Perrye Turner, Special Agent in Charge, FBI; and Jack Conway, Kentucky Attorney General, jointly announced the plea today. The investigation was conducted by the Kentucky Attorney General’s Office and the FBI. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Kenneth R. Taylor and Andrew T. Boone and trial attorney Sean Mulryne with the Public Integrity Section of the United States Department of Justice.
corruption United States Attorney Deborah R. Gilg announced that Brenda Council waived Indictment and entered a plea of guilty to a felony Information charging her with wire fraud. The plea was entered before the Honorable Lyle E. Strom, Senior United States District Court Judge in Omaha. The court ordered a presentence investigation and set sentencing for December 5, 2013. The information charged that council, while a Nebraska state senator, withdrew campaign funds and used those funds to place wagers at casinos in Kansas, Missouri, and Oklahoma. Council misappropriated approximately $63,000 from her campaign funds between January 2010 and July 2012. Council solicited campaign contributions from individuals and businesses to facilitate her election and re-election to the Unicameral. Periodic campaign statements accounting for contributions and expenses were filed with the Nebraska Accountability and Disclosure Commission. The periodic campaign statements were false in that they failed to account for the electronic transfer of funds at various casinos for the purpose of wagering. During the calendar years 2010 and 2011, Council placed wagers at casinos in Kansas, Missouri, and Oklahoma. Using an ATM card drawing off her election campaign account, she would withdraw campaign funds from her bank account in Nebraska. Withdrawals would be made from ATMs in or near the casinos in Kansas, Missouri, and Oklahoma. The electronically withdrawn funds would then be used to wager at the casinos. Council entered into a plea agreement with the United States. The plea agreement contains a provision wherein the parties agree that the appropriate sentence is a term of probation. Should the court accept the plea agreement the court must impose a sentence of probation. The court retains the discretion to set the length and terms of probation and impose a fine within the statutory limits. The court may also order restitution. United States Attorney Deborah R. Gilg expressed her appreciation to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for their investigation. Ms. Gilg noted that the felony charge is an appropriate disposition that highlights the serious nature of her actions. Ms. Gilg further noted that Council violated the public trust through her misuse of campaign contributions.
corruption SACRAMENTO, CA—United States District Judge Kimberly J. Mueller sentenced John Gerald Poland, 45, of South Lake Tahoe, today to 18 months in prison for one count of obstruction of an official proceeding, United States Attorney Benjamin B. Wagner announced. He was ordered to self-surrender to the Bureau of Prisons on November 6, 2013. “Mr. Poland ended his career in law enforcement by abusing his position of trust at every turn,” said U.S. Attorney Wagner. “When faced with the consequences of his misdeeds, he then attempted to influence witnesses who were called to testify against him. Such behavior cannot be tolerated. Mr. Poland stands in contrast to the other outstanding men and women in law enforcement who conduct themselves with dedication and honor every single day.” “Poland’s corruption distorted the laws he had been charged to uphold, put lives at risk, and undermined public trust of law enforcement in South Lake Tahoe,” said Special Agent in Charge Monica M. Miller of the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Sacramento Division. “Corruption of any kind is unwelcome in our communities. The investigation into Poland’s transgressions is an example of our commitment to working with our law enforcement partners to ensure that individuals who take advantage of their positions at the expense of their communities are fully investigated and brought to justice.” According to court documents, on June 29, 2011, Poland interfered with a federal investigation of a South Lake Tahoe gang member. Poland persuaded the gang member’s girlfriend to conceal and destroy evidence. In October and November 2011, Poland tampered with this witness in an investigation into his own conduct as well as the conduct of the gang member. Poland instructed another witness to conceal and destroy evidence rather than provide it to federal authorities. Poland admitted that he corruptly attempted to alter, destroy, mutilate, and conceal evidence material to an official proceeding. This case was the product of an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, South Lake Tahoe Police Department, and the State of California Bureau of Narcotic Enforcement (SLEDNET Task Force). Assistant United States Attorney Michelle Rodriguez prosecuted the case.
corruption ST. LOUIS, MO—Joseph Vacca, former deputy commissioner of the St. Louis Parks Division, and Thomas Stritzel, former chief of the St. Louis Park Rangers, pled guilty to charges that they defrauded the city of St. Louis of approximately half-a-million dollars by submitting false invoices for materials and services supplied to the Parks Division. Both defendants appeared before United States District Judge Jackson in St. Louis. According to court documents, from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2012, Vacca and Stritzel embezzled funds of the city of St. Louis based upon the submission of sham and false invoices, which included false charges of approximately $464,722. They used the funds for their own personal use, including lease payments on personal vehicles, fuel costs, the payment of personal credit card charges, and other personal living expenses unrelated to the legitimate operations of the St. Louis Parks Division. Vacca and Stritzel set up a sham company called Dynamic Management and then funneled city funds received through the submission of false and sham invoices to Dynamic Management’s bank account. Vacca and Stritzel then used those fraudulently obtained funds for their own personal use, including leasing personal vehicles, payment of fuel costs, and the payment of personal credit card charges. These charges carry a penalty range of 20 years in prison and/or fines up to $250,000. In determining the actual sentences, a judge is required to consider the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines, which provide recommended sentencing ranges. Sentencings have been set for December 12, 2013. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department. Assistant United States Attorney Hal Goldsmith is handling the case for the U.S. Attorney’s Office.
corruption Former Customs and Border Protection Officer Hector Rodriguez was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge Roger T. Benitez to serve 78 months in federal prison, followed by three years of supervised release, for bribery, bringing in aliens for financial gain, and conspiracy. Rodriguez, who pleaded guilty on March 28, also forfeited a 2009 Jaguar, 12 luxury watches—including five Rolexes—jewelry, televisions, cash, and computers that were obtained as a result of his criminal activity. Two of Hector Rodriguez’s accomplices were also sentenced today. Co-defendant Gerardo Rodriguez was sentenced to 60 months in prison, followed by three years of supervised release, and he forfeited a 2005 Mercedes, 2006 Harley Davidson, $60,000, televisions, and computers that were obtained as a result of his criminal activity. Codefendant Maria Guerrero was sentenced to 30 months in federal prison, followed by three years of supervised release, and ordered to pay a $40,000 fine. The case was investigated by the multi-agency Border Corruption Task Force. According to court records, defendant Hector Rodriguez agreed that from around 2010 until his arrest on July 13, 2012, he received bribes from co-defendants Gerardo Rodriguez and Maria Guerrero, in the form of cash, use of luxury vehicles, and use of an apartment, in return for failing to enforce U.S. immigration laws by admitting illegal aliens into the U.S. through his inspection lane at the San Ysidro Port-of-Entry. Defendant Hector Rodriguez provided his lane assignment information to co-defendants, who would then drive vehicles containing illegal aliens from Mexico to the United States through his assigned inspection lane. On their date of arrest, July 13, 2012, co-defendant Gerardo Rodriguez drove a vehicle containing eight illegal aliens, and co-defendant Vanessa Moya drove a vehicle containing six illegal aliens through defendant Hector Rodriguez’s inspection lane. To conceal the smuggling, defendant Hector Rodriguez would enter into the government database false information about who was driving the vehicle and the number of occupants, thereby concealing the fact that the vehicles contained illegal aliens. (Co-defendant Vanessa Moya was previously sentenced on May 13, 2013, to five years of probation and ordered to pay a $2,500 fine.) United States Attorney Laura E. Duffy stated, “The honesty and integrity of those who protect our borders are an integral part of the security equation. Corrupt officials who violate the public’s trust and jeopardize the security of our borders will not be tolerated and will be brought to justice.” Pete Flores, director of CBP field operations for San Diego, said, “The sentencing of this former officer sends a message both to the community at large and to those in trusted positions in federal law enforcement who would contemplate participating in corrupt and unlawful behavior. We will not tolerate corruption within our workforce, and we will actively ferret out and prosecute to the fullest extent of the law any employees who commit unethical or unlawful acts that violate that special trust.” FBI Special Agent in Charge (SAC) Daphne Hearn commented, "Public corruption tears at the fabric of our communities and our national security. The FBI will continue to work with our partners in the Border Corruption Task Force (BCTF) to root out corruption along the Southwest Border and ensure those who violate the public’s trust are held accountable." The public can report alleged instances of corruption to the FBI hotline at 858-320-1800. Defendants in Case Number: 12cr2997-BEN/12cr4462-BEN Hector Rodriguez, age 45, San Diego, California Gerardo Rodriguez, age 42, Chula Vista, California Vanessa Moya, age 30, San Diego, California Maria Guerrero, age 39, Chula Vista, California Summary of Charges Title 8, United States Code, Section 371-conspiracy to bring in aliens for financial gain and bribery; Title 8, United States Code, Section 1324(a)(2)(B)(ii)-bringing in illegal aliens for financial hain; and Title 18, United States Code, Sections 201(b)(1), 201(b)(2)-bribery. Investigating Agencies The Border Corruption Task Force is composed of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Customs and Border Protection-Internal Affairs, Customs and Border Protection-Field Operations, Border Patrol, Transportation Security Administration, and Drug Enforcement Administration.
corruption In Del Rio, Texas, this morning, Maverick County Precinct Four Commissioner Cesar Flores, age 46 of Eagle Pass, Texas, pleaded guilty to his role in a bribery, kickback, and bid-rigging scheme, announced United States Attorney Robert Pitman and FBI Special Agent in Charge Armando Fernandez. This is the third Maverick County Commissioner to plead guilty as part of this investigation. Flores pleaded guilty to count one of his indictment, which charged him with receiving bribes. Flores admitted that he agreed to be influenced and rewarded for using his position to ensure that certain contractors were awarded construction contracts in Maverick County Precinct Four in 2010 and in 2011—those contracts involved in excess of $5,000. Flores faces up to 10 years in federal prison, a $250,000 fine, three years of supervised release, and, pursuant to his plea agreement, he will pay restitution as ordered by the court at sentencing. Flores will appear before Judge Alia Moses for sentencing at a date to be determined. This ongoing investigation is being conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Texas Department of Public Safety. Individuals who have first-hand information about corruption, fraud, or bribery related to Maverick County are urged to contact the FBI at (210) 225-6741. Assistant United States Attorney Michael Galdo is prosecuting this case on behalf of the government.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida; Michael B. Steinbach, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office; Hugo J. Barrera, Special Agent in Charge, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF), Miami Field Office; Vernot Foret, Director Field Operations, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), Miami Field Office; and Richard M. Blom, Chief, Doral Police Department, announce the arrest of defendant Francisco Mario Ormachea Aliaga, 42, of Bolivia, on a criminal complaint charging him with traveling in interstate commerce with the intent to promote, manage, establish, carry on, and facilitate an unlawful activity, that is, extortion, in violation of Florida Statute section 836.05, and Title 18, United States Code, Section 1951(a), and thereafter performing and attempting to perform an act to promote, manage, establish, and carry on, and to facilitate the promotion, management, establishment, and carrying on of such unlawful activity, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1952(a)(3). Ormachea made an initial appearance before U.S. Magistrate Judge Barry L. Garber on Tuesday, September 3, 2013, and is scheduled to be arraigned on September 17, 2013. According to the allegations in the complaint, the FBI was contacted by a Bolivian businessman with initials “H.R.” on August 29, 2013. H.R. told the FBI that someone who identified himself as “the Colonel” had contacted H.R. to request a meeting in the United States. Subsequent investigation revealed that the caller, who had referred to himself as the Colonel, was Ormachea. On August 29, 2013, Ormachea departed La Paz, Bolivia, on a commercial flight to Lima, Peru, and then flew on another commercial flight to Miami International Airport. At Miami International Airport, Ormachea presented a valid Bolivian passport containing a valid United States tourist visa to United States Customs and Border Protection, who admitted him into the United States. On August 30, 2013, H.R. met with Ormachea. The FBI monitored and recorded this meeting. During the meeting, Ormachea discussed the issues surrounding the criminal case against H.R. in Bolivia. Ormachea offered to dispose of the criminal charges pending against H.R. in Bolivia for a fee of $30,000. Ormachea agreed to take a payment of $10,000 immediately and receive the remainder of the payment later. On Saturday, August 31, 2013, H.R. met with Ormachea again. The FBI monitored and recorded this meeting. During the course of the meeting, Ormachea stated that, in exchange for $30,000, he would drop the charges against H.R. and charge someone else instead. If, however, H.R. did not pay, Ormachea said that he would pursue H.R.’s arrest in the United States, extradition to Bolivia, and prosecution there. H.R. gave Ormachea $5,000 in previously recorded bills as an initial payment towards the $30,000 required to resolve the charges against him. After the meeting, Ormachea departed by car. FBI surveillance teams in coordination with local law enforcement conducted a traffic stop of Ormachea shortly thereafter. Ormachea was detained and $5,000 was recovered from his person. A review of the seized U.S. currency revealed that it matched the previously recorded bills. Law enforcement officials interviewed Ormachea at the Miami Field Office of the FBI. After receiving and waiving his Miranda warnings in writing, Ormachea acknowledged meeting with H.R. on two occasions but denied attempting to extort H.R. Ormachea acknowledged that he is a member of the Bolivian National Police Corps but stated that he was not traveling in his official capacity as a diplomat of Bolivia. Mr. Ferrer commended investigative efforts of the FBI, ATF, CBP, and the Doral Police Department. This case is being handled by Assistant U.S. Attorneys John Byrne and Jaime Raich. A complaint is merely an accusation, and a defendant is presumed innocent until proven guilty.
corruption A former Wayne County official was sentenced to more than three years in prison for obstructing justice in the investigation of a bribery and extortion scheme, U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade announced today. McQuade was joined in the announcement by Acting Special Agent in Charge John Robert Shoup of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). Zayd Allebban, former Wayne County Director of Enterprise Applications, the office that does software application development for Wayne County, was sentenced to 41 months in federal prison by U,S. District Judge Stephen J. Murphy, III. Allebban was found guilty at trial in February by a federal jury in Detroit on charges of falsifying documents with the intent to obstruct justice. The purpose of the falsified documents was to conceal a bribery and extortion scheme involving Allebban’s friend and supervisor, Tahir Kazmi, former Wayne County chief information officer. The evidence presented at trial established that Allebban and Kazmi sought to obstruct justice by seeking to persuade a private contractor to provide false information to the FBI and to a federal grand jury investigating corruption in the Wayne County government. Allebban and Kazmi sought to conceal the fact that the contractor had given Kazmi tens of thousands of dollars in cash and trips to Hawaii, Turkey, and Florida. Allebban was found guilty of falsifying documents that indicated that all payments from the contractor had been repaid by Kazmi, prior to the initiation of the grand jury investigation, with the intent to obstruct the grand jury and FBI investigation. Allebban, as part of the scheme, also delivered $24,000 in cash to the private contractor in an effort to induce the contractor to tell the FBI that the contractor had never given anything to Kazmi. Allebban was found not guilty on separate charges of conspiracy to obstruct justice and obstruction of justice by means of false documents. Tahir Kazmi pleaded guilty on July 26, 2012, to accepting a bribe and is scheduled to be sentenced on December 13, 2013. He faces a maximum sentence of ten years in prison and/or a $250,000 fine. U.S. Attorney McQuade said, “Public officials who illegally enrich themselves will be detected and brought to justice. Efforts to conceal their crimes will bring additional charges and higher penalties.” FBI Acting Special Agent in Charge Shoup said, “The citizens of Wayne County deserve honest government and leaders committed to serving the needs of taxpayers. This verdict should serve as a reminder that the FBI-led Detroit Area Public Corruption Task Force will remain vigilant and dedicated to stopping these illegal acts.” The case was investigated by special agents of the FBI and Detroit-Area Public Corruption Task Force. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Sheldon Light.
corruption SAN JUAN—On August 30, 2013 a federal grand jury in the District of Puerto Rico returned 12 separate indictments charging 10 current and former U.S. Postal Service (USPS) employees and two doctors, Luis E. Faura-Clavell and Alfonso A. Madrid-Guzmán, with fraud associated with Department of Labor (DOL) Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs (OWCP), announced U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodríguez-Vélez of the District of Puerto Rico. This program provides wage loss and medical benefits to employees who have become injured in the course of their official capacity within the USPS and are unable to work due to disability. A two year investigation led by the USPS-Office of Inspector General (OIG), with assistance from the FBI, Social Security Administration-OIG, Health and Human Services-OIG, DOL-OIG, and the Puerto Rico Police Department, targeted fraud associated with OWCP claims. Postal Service employees are covered by the Federal Employees’ Compensation Act (FECA), which provides tax-free benefits to civilian federal employees who sustain injuries or an occupational disease as a result of their employment. Postal employees can receive up to 75 percent if there is at least one dependent. The Postal Service is the largest FECA participant, paying more than $1 billion in benefits and $60 million in administrative fees annually. Pursuant to OWCP guidelines, a claimant must prove that he or she is disabled by furnishing medical documentation and other evidence with their work related claim. The employee’s claim and supporting medical evidence is then evaluated by the OWCP to determine the claimant’s medical impairments and the effect of the impairment on the claimant’s ability to work on a sustained basis. The investigation initially focused on Faura-Clavell and the medical documentation he completed to support the permanent disability of USPS claimants. Subsequently, the investigation revealed that Faura-Clavell and Madrid-Guzmán would evaluate and diagnose the claimants in an effort to justify a non-existent injury in order to deceive and persuade the OWCP to award the claimants with workers compensation benefits. The doctors would charge fees ranging up to $1,650 for the preparation of the fraudulent medical reports. During the investigation, additional evidence revealed six of the 10 aforementioned OWCP claimants also fraudulently received Social Security Administration disability benefits. The defendants who illegally received the workers’ compensation benefits are: Bernardo Brito-Franco; Rodolfo Vázquez-Soto; Félix Ortiz-Vázquez; Miguel Plaza-Nieves; Wilma T. Fontán; Moisés Rivera-Aponte; Samuel Badillo-Muñiz; Ricardo Rivera-Ortiz; Rafael Espinet-García; and Lydia Rivera-Rodríguez. All the defendants are facing forfeiture allegations totaling more than $620,000. Brito-Franco is also charged with health care fraud. “The Department of Justice is strongly committed to promoting compliance with federal program laws and regulations,” said U.S. Attorney Rodríguez-Vélez. “These arrests demonstrate that we will not tolerate criminals who engage in fraudulent schemes which deplete funds of federal benefit programs which are destined for disabled individuals who really need and are entitled to them. We will continue to vigorously pursue this systemic problem.” “Today’s indictments should send a clear message to doctors and Postal employees that defrauding the federal workers’ compensation program will not be tolerated,” said Rafael Medina, Special Agent in Charge of the USPS-OIG. “Anyone who helps Postal employees commit workers’ compensation fraud should know this is only the start of our investigative efforts to expose these false claims.” Special Agent in Charge Edward J. Ryan of the Office of the Inspector General-Office of Investigations of the Social Security Administration stated, “These fraud conspiracy schemes involving unscrupulous medical professionals and disability claims has been exposed and those involved are being brought to justice. Our cooperative investigative work targeting these conspiracies continues. OIG will continue to work with our partners to protect the integrity of the Social Security Trust Fund and the other federal compensation programs.” “We are proud to be a part of the federal team that brought these defendants to justice for defrauding Medicare by illegally becoming enrolled in the Program,” said Thomas O’Donnell, Special Agent in Charge of the Office of Inspector General’s New York Regional Office, which also covers Puerto Rico. “Individuals who take advantage of Medicare benefits for which they do not qualify are not only diminishing funds meant for legitimate Medicare beneficiaries, they are also defrauding the taxpayers. HHS-OIG will continue to work with our law enforcement partners in the battle against this type of eligibility fraud.” “Today’s arrests highlight the OIG’s commitment to investigate fraud against the federal employees’ compensation program, which provides workers’ compensation coverage to federal employees for work-related injuries and illnesses. The OIG will continue to work with our law enforcement partners to investigate these types of fraud,” stated Gordon S. Heddell, Acting Deputy Inspector General of the DOL. The case was investigated by the USPS-OIG with the collaboration of the FBI, aforementioned OIGs, and the Puerto Rico Police Department. The case was indicted by First Assistant U.S. Attorney Maria Dominguez.
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, Acting United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, and Kimberly K. Mertz, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, announced that George Tirado, 36, of Wolcott, was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge Janet Bond Arterton in New Haven to 26 months of imprisonment, followed by one year of supervised release, for his participation in a scheme to direct illegal campaign contributions into the campaign of a candidate for the U.S. House of Representatives. Tirado was also ordered to pay a $5,000 fine. At the time of the offense, Tirado was the co-owner of a Roll Your Own (RYO) smoke shop while also serving as a detective with the Waterbury Police Department. “A substantial prison term is warranted for any individual who violates federal campaign finance laws in order to influence elected officials for personal gain,” stated Acting U.S. Attorney Daly. “That this defendant was a veteran police detective who ignored his oath and broke the law makes this sentence even more appropriate.” “Today’s sentence sends a clear message to those of us who are sworn to uphold the law, that no one is above the law,” stated FBI Special Agent in Charge Mertz. “It should be an honor and privilege to protect and serve the public. Instead, George Tirado betrayed his oath of honor when he conspired with others to direct illegal campaign contributions. This conduct threatens to undermine both the public’s faith in the election process and in law enforcement.” According to court documents and statements made in court, in August 2011, the state of Connecticut applied for a court order enjoining RYO smoke shops from continuing to operate without complying with state law governing tobacco manufacturers. RYO smoke shops are retail businesses that sell loose smoking tobacco and cigarette-rolling materials and offer customers the option of paying a “rental” fee to insert the loose tobacco and the rolling materials into a RYO machine, which is capable of rapidly rolling large quantities of cigarettes. Customers did not pay a tax on the RYO cigarettes when rolled by the RYO machines, in contrast to cigarettes purchased over-the-counter. Tirado and Paul Rogers co-owned Smoke House Tobacco, a RYO smoke shop with two locations in Waterbury. Fearing that the Connecticut General Assembly would enact legislation harmful to RYO smoke shop owners’ business interests during the 2012 legislative session, Tirado, Rogers, Harry Raymond “Ray” Soucy, and others engaged in a scheme to direct conduit campaign contributions into the campaign of Christopher Donovan, a candidate for the U.S. House of Representatives. At the time, Donovan was also the Speaker of the Connecticut House of Representatives. As part of the scheme, the co-conspirators recruited multiple individuals to serve as conduit contributors to the campaign. These individuals permitted checks to be written in their own names to the campaign and were reimbursed with cash, thereby concealing the fact that RYO smoke shop owners were contributing to the campaign. On November 15, 2011, Tirado obtained a signed blank check from one of his smoke shop employees. Tirado then made the check payable to the campaign in the amount of $2,500 and assured the employee that she would be reimbursed. That same evening, Tirado attended a campaign fundraising event where he completed a contribution form in the employee’s name. The contribution form contained a representation that the contribution was being funded by the individual named on the form. He then provided the check to Rogers who delivered it to a campaign employee. The next morning, Tirado provided another conduit contribution in the amount of $2,500 to Soucy prior to a meeting that they had scheduled with the candidate. Soucy then gave the check to a campaign employee. On November 21, 2011, Tirado deposited $2,500 in cash into the checking account of the employee who had served as a conduit contributor on November 15. The $2,500 came from the business proceeds of Smoke House Tobacco. In December 2011, Rogers, Soucy, and others attended another fundraising event and delivered two more $2,500 conduit contributions to the campaign. On approximately January 31, 2012, the Christopher Donovan for Congress campaign committee submitted to the Federal Election Commission (FEC) a report of the committee’s receipts and disbursements for the period October 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011. The report falsely stated the source and amount of the four $2,500 contributions that were received and deposited by the campaign committee during that time period. In the spring of 2012, the conspirators made additional illegal campaign contributions totaling $17,500. During today’s sentencing, Judge Arterton also found that Tirado lied to FBI special agents investigating this scheme during an interview that was conducted on June 4, 2012. On April 19, 2013, Tirado pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to make false statements to the FEC and to impede the FEC’s enforcement of federal campaign finance laws. Rogers, Soucy, and five others, including two employees of the Donovan for Congress campaign, have also been convicted of charges stemming from this scheme. This matter is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Christopher M. Mattei and Eric J. Glover.
corruption Stephen Tanabe, a former deputy with the Contra Costa County Sheriff’s Office, was convicted today by a federal jury in San Francisco, United States Attorney Melinda Haag announced. The jury found Tanabe guilty of two counts of extortion under color of official right, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1951; three counts of wire fraud on a deprivation of honest services theory, in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1343 and 1346; and one count of conspiracy to commit honest services fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1349. Tanabe was acquitted on one extortion count. According to evidence presented at trial, Tanabe conspired to and engaged in a scheme to take bribes in exchange for his services as a deputy sheriff, thereby depriving the people of Contra Costa County of their right to his honest services. Specifically, the evidence showed that Christopher Butler, a former Antioch Police Officer turned private investigator, was hired by wives and ex-wives engaged in divorce and child custody proceedings to arrange “stings” against their spouses, whom they told Butler had a propensity to drive under the influence of alcohol. Butler used “decoys” to entice the sting targets to bars in downtown Danville, where Tanabe was assigned to patrol, and encourage them to drink. For one sting, Tanabe joined Butler in a bar while off-duty, watching two attractive young women working for Butler drink with a sting target. Evidence showed that, in exchange for a promise of cocaine, Tanabe notified an on-duty deputy that the sting target was about to drive away, having been lured by the prospect of a hot tub with the two women. For two other stings, the evidence showed that Tanabe, then on-duty, waited outside the Vine Bar in Danville and then arrested the targets in exchange for a Glock handgun. “This conviction confirms that Stephen Tanabe did not serve his community with honor or integrity but instead set up unsuspecting citizens and abused the public trust,” said United States Attorney, Melinda Haag. “Law enforcement officers are hard-working, honorable men and women who work selflessly every day to keep us safe. Stephen Tanabe is the exception, and he does not deserve the badge he was wearing.” The maximum statutory penalties for honest services wire fraud under 18 U.S.C. §§ 1343 and 1346, conspiracy to commit same under 18 U.S.C. § 1349, and extortion under color of official right under 18 U.S.C. § 1951, are 20 years’ imprisonment; $250,000 fine; and five years of supervised release. However, any sentence following this conviction will be imposed by the court after consideration of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and the federal statute governing the imposition of a sentence, 18 U.S.C. § 3553. Butler entered into a cooperation plea agreement with the government on May 7, 2012, and was sentenced on September 25, 2012, to 96 months in prison. Tanabe, 50, was originally indicted on December 15, 2011. The superseding information on which he was tried filed June 12, 2013. Sentencing is scheduled for December 11, 2013, at 10:00 a.m., before U.S. District Judge Charles R. Breyer. The U.S. Attorney specifically thanks Contra Costa County District Attorney Mark Peterson for his invaluable assistance and leadership into the investigation and prosecution of this case. The District Attorney and his office are vital partners in the federal efforts to address public safety in Contra Costa County. Hartley M. K. West and Philip J. Kearney are the Assistant U.S. Attorneys who prosecuted the case with the assistance of Alycee Lane, Rosario Calderon, and Harriet Marmah. The prosecution is the result of a lengthy investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the California Department of Justice. A copy of this press release may be found on the U.S. Attorney’s Office’s website at www.usdoj.gov/usao/can.
corruption Michael J. Moore, United States Attorney for the Middle District of Georgia, announced that two former councilmen of the city of Forsyth, Georgia, James Edward Calloway and Desi Surtane Hansford, pled guilty in United States District Court in Macon, Georgia, to one count each of accepting bribes in connection with the performance of their official duties. Each man faces a maximum sentence of up to 10 years’ imprisonment and a fine of up to $250,000. Facts stipulated in the written plea agreements of the two men show the following: Mr. Calloway had been a councilman for 22 years and Mr. Hansford for five. Both served on the Combined Utilities Committee of the Council, which oversees electric, water, sewer, and telecommunications for the city of Forsyth. On December 27, 2012, Mr. Calloway solicited a bribe from a water and waste treatment company of $20,000 to guarantee the votes to give it the water waste contract for the city. That company immediately notified the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) of the solicitation and cooperated fully and actively with that agency throughout the investigation, which revealed that at least in part Mr. Calloway’s motive in soliciting the payment was to help Councilman Hansford rescue his home from foreclosure. A representative of the water and waste treatment company, cooperating with the FBI, met with the two councilmen on January 18, 2013, at a truck stop off I-75 in Jackson, Georgia, and paid them $10,000 in currency provided by the FBI while secretly recording the meeting per FBI instructions. Mr. Calloway assured the company representative that the company would recover the amount of the bribe through a future project on which the company would be employed. Following this meeting and payment, Mr. Calloway and Mr. Hansford split the money equally. A second $10,000 payment was delivered to Mr. Calloway one week later, January 25, 2013, under similar circumstances to the first, after which he was immediately arrested and subsequently confessed. He also admitted receiving two Falcons playoff tickets from the company, which he and Mr. Hansford shared. Mr. Calloway then cooperated with the government and participated in paying an additional $5,000 (half of the second $10,000 payment) to Mr. Hansford, who was then also arrested. “The oath of public office is a sacred thing, and those who choose to seek public office should know that they must not betray the public’s trust. Bribes have no place in government contracting, and my office will use our resources to ensure that a few instances of corruption are not allowed to erode the public’s ability to trust the representatives they elect. I want to acknowledge the good work of the FBI and also thank the company officials who reported this criminal activity, choosing to put law and order over profit,” said U.S. Attorney Michael Moore. Sentencing of the two men will take place in approximately 60 days. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Sonja Profit. For additional information please contact Sue McKinney, Public Affairs Specialist, United States Attorney’s Office at (478) 621-2602.
corruption WESTMINSTER—The FBI arrested two men today for a loan sharking scheme in Orange County, announced Bill L. Lewis, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Los Angeles Field Office, and André Birotte Jr., the United States Attorney for the Central District of California. Kevin Khanh Tuan Do, 38, of Fountain Valley, and Anthony Duong Donner, 28, of Westminster, were arrested this morning without incident, following a meeting at the Westminster Police Department. Do is the owner of Do’s Construction and Design located in Westminster, California. Donner is a patrol officer with the Westminster Police Department, who is currently on administrative leave. Do and Donner were charged in a criminal complaint filed in United States District Court in Santa Ana today with collecting extensions of credit by extortionate means, a violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 894. According to the complaint, Do operated an illegal lending and collection business which he and others allegedly enforced by using intimidation and threats. The complaint alleges that Donner, who worked for Do, used his authority as a police officer in order to enforce the collection of payment. In 2012, a government investigation uncovered the loan sharking operation and an investigation of Do and Donner was initiated, resulting in today’s arrests. The complaint details a situation in which a victim, identified in the complaint only as a business owner and by the initials, “H.L.,” obtained loans from Do in the amount of $170,000 and later made incremental payments at a rate of five percent per month and 60 percent annually. From 2011 through 2013, H.L. made approximately $168,000 in payments to Do, all of which were considered by Do to be interest payments, with none of the money paid toward the principal of the loans, according to the complaint. When H.L. was unable to make payments to Do, Do allegedly instructed Donner to take police enforcement actions against H.L.’s business. If convicted of the charge in the complaint, the defendants face a statutory maximum penalty of 20 years in federal prison and a fine of $250,000. Do and Donner were in federal court in Santa Ana today for an initial appearance and released on bond. A preliminary hearing has been scheduled for September 20, 2013, and a post-indictment arraignment has been scheduled for September 23, 2013. This ongoing investigation is being conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Personnel with the Westminster Police Department fully cooperated and assisted during this investigation. Do and Donner are being prosecuted by the United States Attorney’s Office in Orange County. A criminal complaint contains allegations that a defendant has committed a crime. Every defendant is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty in court. Media Contacts: Assistant United States Attorney Brett Sagel: 714-338-3598 Assistant United States Attorney Joseph McNally: 714-338-3590 FBI Press Relations: 310-996-3343
corruption ALBUQUERQUE—A federal grand jury has indicted two men from Gallup, New Mexico, on charges that they engaged in a scheme to defraud the United States and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) of more than $100,000. The indictment was announced by Acting U.S. Attorney Steven C. Yarbrough; Phyllis Robinson, Special Agent in Charge of Region 6, HUD Office of Inspector General; and Carol K.O. Lee, Special Agent in Charge of the Albuquerque Division of the FBI. Danny Garcia, 37, and Michael Virruso, 61, are charged in a 12-count indictment that was filed late yesterday afternoon. The indictment charges Garcia and Virruso with one count of conspiracy and eight counts of making false claims against the United States. It also charges Garcia with three counts of theft from programs receiving federal funds. According to the indictment, from June 2010 through October 2012, Garcia and Virruso engaged in a scheme to steal federal funds provided by HUD to the Gallup Housing Authority (GHA). At the time of the offenses charged in the indictment, Garcia was the executive director of GHA. HUD is a federal agency whose core mission is to make quality, affordable housing accessible to all Americans. It oversees and funds programs designed to provide affordable housing for low-income Americans. One such program is the Capital Fund Program (CFP), which provides grants to public housing agencies for the purpose of making improvements to public housing developments. According to the indictment, GHA is a public housing agency that receives approximately $400,000 in CFP grants each year. The indictment alleges that as executive director of GHA, Garcia was responsible for selecting contractors to carry out GHA projects, reviewing and approving invoices payable by GHA, and requesting HUD funds to pay for GHA projects. It further alleges that in summer 2010, Garcia awarded a contract to remove and replace sidewalks in a GHA housing development to a construction company that employed Virruso (company) and also appointed Virruso to act as safety inspector. While working on the project, Virruso allegedly submitted invoices to GHA for work performed by the company and for which the company received payment, and Garcia allegedly used GHA funds to pay Virruso’s invoices and then obtained reimbursement from HUD’s CFP. According to the indictment, Virruso fraudulently received more than $75,000 through this scheme. The indictment also alleges that Garcia embezzled more than $15,000 of HUD funds by misusing a GHA debit card. Count one of the indictment charges the defendants with conspiracy and carries a maximum penalty of five years of imprisonment and a $250,000 fine on conviction. Counts two through nine each charge the defendants with making false claims against the United States. A conviction on each of these counts carries a maximum penalty of five years of imprisonment and a $250,000 fine on conviction. Counts 10 through 12 each charge Garcia with theft of government property. A conviction on each of these counts carries a maximum penalty of 10 years of imprisonment and a $250,000 fine. Charges in indictments are only accusations, and defendants are presumed innocent unless proven guilty. The case was investigated by the Region 6, HUD-Office of Inspector General and the Albuquerque Division of the FBI, and it is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeremy Peña.
corruption HOUSTON—Former long-time Harris County Precinct One Constable Jack Abercia has been convicted on 11 counts of exceeding authorized computer access, United States Attorney Kenneth Magidson announced today, along with FBI Special Agent in Charge Stephen L. Morris. Also entering guilty pleas today were Weldon Kenneth Wiener, his former chief lieutenant, and Michael Butler, his former office chief. Weiner and Butler were convicted on one count of conspiracy. The three Houston residents were charged in an indictment returned Tuesday, January 10, 2012. Today, Abercia admitted as part of his plea that he unlawfully accessed the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) database on multiple occasions for private financial gain at the time he served as Harris County Precinct One Constable. NCIC is restricted to genuine law enforcement purposes. Users must undergo training and screening, have passwords that are monitored, and are instructed that the database is not to be used for non-law enforcement reasons nor beyond in the performance of their official duties. Abercia was convicted of 11 specific acts of unauthorized access or access in excess of official authority in November 2011, but court documents allege the practice had been occurring in the office for a longer period of time. The investigation revealed Abercia performed background checks for various contractors in return for money. Weiner and Butler admitted they conspired to perform those background checks. On one occasion, Abercia was approached and offered $3000 for having computer searches conducted on four prospective employees. Weiner was also at that meeting. After receiving the money, Abercia said, “God willing, this money will go towards my elevator.” The factual basis in support of the plea indicated he had been considering having an elevator installed in his residence for health reasons but never did so. Abercia offered to arrange for more searches but stated that Weiner must be paid as well. In total, Abercia received $9,000, while Weiner was paid $1,000 for his part in having the NCIC searches conducted. Butler admitted as part of his plea that he was informed of an improper search and had a duty to report but failed to do so. U.S. District Judge Keith P. Ellison, who accepted the guilty pleas, has set sentencing for November 26, 2013. At that time, Abercia faces up to five years in federal prison for each count of exceeding authorized computer access. For their conspiracy convictions, Weiner and Butler also face up to five years’ imprisonment. All counts also include a possible fine of $250,000. They were permitted to remain on bond pending their sentencing hearing. This case was investigated by the FBI Houston Law Enforcement/Border Corruption Task Force with special assistance from the Houston Police Department-Internal Affairs Division and the Texas Rangers and is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael Wynne.
corruption SACRAMENTO, CA—U.S. Attorney Benjamin B. Wagner announced today that Lida Amin, 39, of Dubai, United Arab Emirates, and Dublin, California, was arrested today in Prague, Czech Republic, by Czech authorities pursuant to a U.S. request for her provisional arrest with a view toward extradition. The provisional arrest request was based on an indictment filed in the Eastern District of California on August 8, 2013, charging Ms. Amin and her brother, Nabil Amin, with conspiring to bribe a public official in exchange for military contracts. Ms. Amin is also charged with three counts of using interstate commerce facilities to aid in her bribery activities. The indictment was unsealed today after Ms. Amin was arrested by Czech officials. The Department of Justice will seek the extradition of Ms. Amin to the United States. According to the indictment, Lida Amin and Nabil Amin traveled to Budapest, Hungary, in September 2012 to meet with an U.S. Air Force contract administrator to discuss the details of a scheme to obtain government contracts in exchange for bribe payments. The contract administrator had formerly been stationed in Afghanistan. The defendants' scheme involved obtaining as many contracts as possible over an extended period of time by making bribe payments to the contract administrator after each contract was completed. In exchange for the bribe payments, the contract administrator would continue to assist Lida Amin and Nabil Amin in obtaining new government contracts. The indictment alleges that Lida Amin and Nabil Amin established a plan to communicate with the contract administrator during the contract bidding process using a limited-access GMX webmail account to which both sides had access. The GMX account was used when a code word was mentioned over a different e-mail account. When notified in this way, Ms. Amin communicated with the contract administrator by creating draft e-mails in the GMX account, which, once read, could be deleted without being sent, thus minimizing the electronic record of their communications. According to the indictment, Ms. Amin established companies and bank accounts in Afghanistan in the names of third parties and entities for the purpose of receiving proceeds from government contracts received through the bribery scheme. In connection with a bribe promise made to the contract administrator, Ms. Amin, acting through one of her companies, Striker Logistics, shipped contract goods, including medical clothing and linens, to Travis Air Force Base in the Eastern District of California in July 2013. Ms. Amin was arrested in Prague after she traveled there to meet with the contract administrator. The charges against both defendants are only allegations, and the defendants are presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. This case is the product of an extensive, joint investigation by the FBI; U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration; Fremont, California, Police Department; and U.S. Department of Justice, Office of International Affairs. Assistance was provided by the Ministry of Justice of the Czech Republic, Czech National Police, and Prague Police Department. The maximum statutory penalty for the charge of conspiracy to bribe a public official is five years of imprisonment, a $250,000 fine, and a three-year term of supervised release. The maximum statutory penalty for the charges of use of a facility in interstate commerce in aid of bribery activity is five years of imprisonment, a $250,000 fine, and a three-year term of supervised release.
corruption ATLANTA—Dwayne Penn, a Clayton County Police officer assigned to the U.S. Marshals Service fugitive task force, and Adrian Demetric Austin have been arrested on corruption, drug trafficking, and firearm charges. “Penn’s abuse of trust is shocking,” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. “Police officers who manipulate their positions create mistrust with the people they are sworn to protect. As demonstrated by the number of police officer cases charged earlier this year, we are committed to pursuing these cases wherever they arise to restore the public’s trust in honest law enforcement.” Mark F. Giuliano, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated, “While public corruption matters overall are a priority criminal investigative program within the FBI, any allegation of public corruption involving law enforcement officers takes on a particular sense of urgency. This matter, involving Clayton County Police Officer and U.S. Marshals Task Force Officer Dwayne Penn, was worked with close cooperation and support by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA). While the arrest of Officer Penn is disconcerting, the public should be reminded that the vast majority of those individuals serving within the criminal justice system do so with honor and integrity.” Harry S. Sommers, the Special Agent in Charge of the DEA Atlanta Field Division, stated, “The vast majority of law enforcement officers serve the public with honor and distinction. Officers like these unfortunately tarnish the badge of the committed men and women of law enforcement. This individual will now have to face the consequences for his deplorable actions. The success of this investigation would have not been possible without the dynamic level of law enforcement cooperation.” “The Clayton County Police Department remains dedicated and committed to serving and protecting Clayton County residents and businesses," said Clayton County Deputy Police Chief Christopher L. Butler. “We ask that you continue your support of those unfaltering officers.” According to United States Attorney Yates, the complaint, and other information submitted in court: In August 2013, Penn, of the Clayton County Police Department, allegedly conspired with Austin, a suspected Atlanta-based drug dealer, to use Penn’s official position as a police officer to stage a fake traffic stop of a car that he and Austin believed would contain six kilograms of cocaine, conduct a fake arrest of the car’s occupant, seize the cocaine for themselves, and then sell the cocaine, sharing their ill-gotten gains. Fortunately, the person whom Penn and Austin sought to recruit for this corrupt endeavor was cooperating with federal law enforcement and agreed to record his/her meetings with Penn and Austin. In the lead-up to the fake arrest and seizure, Penn and Austin met face-to-face with the confidential informant on two separate occasions to plan their operation. The complaint alleges that the first planning meeting, which was surreptitiously recorded by law enforcement, occurred on August 21, 2013. Penn drove his police car to the meeting. While together, Penn, Austin, and the confidential informant discussed the confidential informant obtaining cocaine from his/her drug source of supply. Penn would then conduct a fake traffic stop and arrest of the confidential informant in front of the source, using Penn’s police vehicle and lights, and seize the cocaine, leading the source to mistakenly believe the drugs had been seized by law enforcement. They would divide up the seized cocaine among themselves according to the plan. As part of the charade, Penn agreed to handcuff the confidential informant, put the drugs in the trunk of his police car, and drive the confidential informant to a second location. Penn reassured the confidential informant that they could cover his/her tracks with the source of supply to deflect suspicion. Penn, Austin, and the confidential informant met again on August 27, 2013, at a parking lot in Decatur where the drug deal was to occur. The meeting was at Penn’s request so they could further plan the operation. Like the August 21 meeting, the August 27 meeting was surreptitiously recorded by law enforcement. Penn drove his police car to the August 27 meeting as well. The confidential informant entered Penn’s police car, where Austin was already waiting. The three continued their discussion of the staged traffic stop, arrest, and seizure, which they agreed would occur the next day at that same parking lot. Penn worked through the logistics, including where he would park during the cocaine deal; how Penn would conduct the fake traffic stop, arrest, and seizure; and the eventual split of the seized six kilograms of cocaine. Penn drove Austin and the confidential informant around the parking lot, scouting out possible spots for various events the next day. Penn even asked if Austin wanted to ride with him the next day. As planned, on the morning of August 28, 2013, Penn and Austin arrived at the Decatur parking lot. Penn drove his police car and parked it in view of where the drug deal was to occur. While waiting, Penn ran the tags of a number of vehicles in the area through law enforcement databases. The confidential informant met with the supposed drug dealer (also a law enforcement source) in the parking lot in view of Penn. The confidential informant received a shopping bag containing six kilogram-size bricks of fake cocaine, walked back to his/her vehicle, and placed the bag inside, placing two kilogram bricks in the back seat and leaving the remaining four kilogram bricks in the shopping bag in the front seat. Shortly after the confidential informant emerged from the vehicle, Penn sped over in his police car with the lights on and blocked the confidential informant from leaving. Penn jumped out of his car with his firearm drawn and pointed it at the confidential informant. Penn was wearing a bulletproof vest, which read “Police,” and a black baseball hat. Penn ordered the confidential informant to get on the ground and to keep his/her “hands behind your back,” which the confidential informant did. Penn holstered his firearm, picked up the confidential informant from the ground, and patted him/her down. Penn then ushered the confidential informant into Penn’s police car. The confidential informant told Penn that s/he had already taken his/her two and that there were four in the bag. Penn then walked over to the confidential informant’s vehicle and removed the shopping bag with the four kilogram bricks from the front seat, leaving the confidential informant’s share (two kilograms) in the car. Penn placed the shopping bag in the trunk of his police car, told the confidential informant to “get out of here,” and drove away with the cocaine-like substance, leaving the confidential informant and the two kilogram bricks behind at the parking lot. Penn and Austin were arrested shortly afterward in the vicinity of the Decatur parking lot. They are charged in a criminal complaint with drug trafficking and firearm charges; Penn is also charged with public corruption. They made their initial appearance in United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia before United States Magistrate Judge Alan J. Baverman today. If convicted, Penn, 38, and Austin, 38, both of Atlanta, Georgia, face a maximum sentence of up to life imprisonment for the drug trafficking charges; up to life imprisonment for the firearm charge; and, for Penn, up to 20 years on the public corruption charge; as well as fines of over $10 million dollars. Members of the public are reminded that the criminal complaint contains only allegations. A defendant is presumed innocent of the charges, and it will be the government’s burden to prove a defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt at trial. This case is being investigated by special agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Drug Enforcement Administration. Assistant United States Attorney Scott Ferber is prosecuting the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Pressemails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia is www.justice.gov/usao/gan.
corruption Normangee Police Chief Joseph Ray “Jody” Navarro, age 40, is in federal custody charged with allegedly using a law enforcement computer system to aid a methamphetamine trafficker, announced United States Attorney Robert Pitman, Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) Director Steven McCraw and Leon County Sheriff Kevin Ellis. A criminal complaint, filed last Thursday and unsealed today, charges the Madisonville, Texas resident with one count of intentionally exceeding authorized access to a protected computer. According to the criminal complaint, in May 2013, Navarro ran a background check on a name supplied to him by suspected methamphetamine trafficker and Normangee resident Brenda Antanette Evans, age 45. A separate, but related, criminal complaint filed last Thursday and unsealed today charges Evans and 25–year- old Joshua Troy Thomas of Normangee with one count of possession with intent to distribute methamphetamine. According to that complaint, on April 26, 2013, during an undercover investigation, Evans purchased close to one ounce of methamphetamine from Thomas on behalf of an undercover agent for approximately $1,200. Authorities arrested Navarro and Thomas yesterday without incident. Both had their initial appearances in federal court this morning and are scheduled to have a detention hearing on September 3, 2013, before United States Magistrate Judge Jeffrey C. Manske in Waco. Evans has yet to be apprehended. Upon conviction, Navarro faces up to five years in federal prison and a maximum $250,000 fine; Thomas and Evans, up to 20 years in federal prison and a maximum $250,000 fine. This ongoing investigation is being conducted by the Texas Department of Public Safety Criminal Investigation Division, Leon County Sheriff’s Office, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Agents with the Drug Enforcement Administration, as well as Deputy U.S. Marshals, assisted with the arrests. Assistant United States Attorney Mary Kucera is prosecuting this case on behalf of the government. A criminal complaint is merely a charge and should not be considered as evidence of guilt. The defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty in a court of law.
corruption MCALLEN, TX—Jose Guadalupe Vela, Jr., 64; Omar Leonel Vela, 35; and Michael Vela, 29, have been arrested on charges of conspiracy, mail fraud, violations of the Travel Act, theft, and bribery, United States Attorney Kenneth Magidson announced today. The sealed indictment, returned in Houston August 21, 2013, was unsealed upon the arrest of Jose Vela and his sons Omar and Michael Vela today in Progreso. They are expected to make their initial appearances before a U.S. Magistrate Judge Dorina Ramos in McAllen tomorrow morning. The three men are charged based on their alleged participation in a scheme to create a “pay-to-play” public contracting system in Progreso. According to the indictment, they used their control of Progreso municipal government and the Board of Trustees of the Progreso Independent School District (PISD) to extract bribes and kickbacks from service providers to PISD and the city. PISD receives more than $1 million per year in federal funds from the U.S. Department of Education. The 10-count indictment alleges that from June 2004 until the date of indictment, the Vela family members conspired to obtain bribes and kickbacks from several service providers. Those allegedly include a construction company and an architectural firm hired as contractors by the city and PISD, an attorney hired as local counsel to advise PISD and a company that supplied PISD and the city with electrical and plumbing supplies. According to the indictment, Jose Vela, the maintenance and transportation supervisor for PISD, maintained political control in Progreso through his sons Omar Vela, the mayor of Progreso, and Michael Vela, president of the PISD Board of Trustees. The indictment charges that Jose Vela controlled members of the PISD Board of Trustees through a system of reward and retaliation. That is, board members who voted as directed by Jose Vela were allegedly rewarded with bribe money, but those who did not follow his direction were faced with retaliation. According to the indictment, from 2004 to 2006, the construction company paid Omar Vela approximately $85,000 in bribes in order to be hired on projects in Progreso, including the construction of an elementary school, a school gymnasium and a municipal park. The indictment further indicates that in 2008 and 2009, the attorney paid nearly $10,000 to the three defendants in order to be hired as local counsel for PISD. The indictment also alleges that from 2009 to 2012, Omar Vela instructed the owner of the electrical and plumbing supply company to provide fraudulent invoices to PISD and the city of Progreso for products that were not supplied. When the invoices were paid, Omar Vela allegedly instructed the owner of the supply company to return the funds to Omar Vela as kickbacks. Through this scheme, Omar Vela is alleged to have stolen more than $14,000 from the city of Progreso and PISD. If convicted, each face up to 20 years in prison for mail fraud, five years for the conspiracy, 10 years for each of the bribery and theft involving federal programs, and five years for each of the six counts of violations of the travel act. All charges also carry a possible maximum fine of $250,000. The investigation was conducted by the FBI. Assistant United States Attorney Robert S. Johnson is prosecuting the case. An indictment is a formal accusation of criminal conduct, not evidence. A defendant is presumed innocent unless convicted through due process of law.
corruption United States Attorney Deborah R. Gilg announced that on August 27, 2013, Kevin Cave, age 37 of Bellevue, appeared before United States District Judge Joseph F. Bataillon and entered a plea of guilty to one count of exceeding authorized access to a protected computer for private financial gain. The charge carries a possible penalty of up to five years in prison, up to a $250,000 fine or both, and can be followed by up to three years of supervised release. Cave was employed as an officer with the Omaha Police Department. In that capacity, he had access to the NCJIS (Nebraska Criminal Justice Information System) database maintained by the Nebraska Crime Commission. NCJIS is linked to numerous other databases within the state of Nebraska and other states and can provide officers with information on suspects or witnesses to include criminal history information, drivers’ license information, employment information, and parole and probation information. Commencing in 2010 and continuing until August 2012, Cave conducted unauthorized NCJIS searches on behalf of car dealerships seeking to repossess cars. He conducted the searches because he was being paid up to $200 for each lead that led to a successful repossession. Between on or about March 2, 2010 and August 21, 2012, Cave received at least $16,050 from the dealerships for having done so. Sentencing is set for November 15, 2013. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
corruption ATLANTA—Mark Gary has been sentenced for bribing former Gwinnett County Commissioner Shirley Lasseter in 2009 to secure approval of a proposed waste transfer station in which he held a personal stake. United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates said, “Businessmen who pay to play are making a losing bet. Mr. Gary will now pay with his freedom for corrupting Gwinnett County’s approval of competing real estate developments.” Mark F. Giuliano, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated, “Today’s sentencing illustrates the consequences of bypassing proper procedures of securing contracts and doing business with government agencies. The FBI will continue to provide its investigative resources and expertise in addressing public corruption matters at all levels of government.” According to United States Attorney Yates, the charges, and other information presented in court: Mark Gary is a local Gwinnett County businessman. In or about October 2008, Gary sought to develop a $4 million solid waste transfer station, which would serve as a way station in the trash collection process, consolidating trash from haulers for shipment to more distant landfills. Gary submitted the necessary application to obtain the requisite county approvals and permits, which required approval by the Gwinnett County Board of Commissioners. Shirley Lasseter was elected to the Gwinnett County Board of Commissioners as the District 1 representative in the fall of 2008 and took office in January 2009. Gary worked to help get Lasseter elected as a county commissioner. Almost immediately after taking office, Lasseter appointed Gary to the Gwinnett County Planning Commission. In March or April 2009, Gary spoke with Lasseter and her son, John Fanning, about Gary’s pending application to allow development of the solid waste transfer station. Gary offered money to Lasseter and Fanning, who discussed amounts with Gary of as much as $100,000 in exchange for Lasseter’s commission vote to approve the pending application. Given her public position and to avoid any scrutiny, Lasseter directed Gary to speak with and to provide the money to Fanning. Gary’s permit application came before the commission for approval on April 28, 2009. Consistent with her agreement with Gary, Lasseter voted to approve the development. Several months later, Gary lived up to his end of the bargain. In June 2009, Gary paid Fanning $30,000. Gary paid this amount by giving Fanning $30,000 worth of chips at an out-of-state casino. Gary, 40, of Duluth, Georgia, was sentenced to two years in prison, to be followed by three years of supervised release. Gary was convicted on October 1, 2012, after he pleaded guilty to an information charging him with this crime. Lasseter was sentenced on September 5, 2012, to serve two years, nine months in prison for her role in accepting illegal bribes. Her son, John Fanning, was sentenced on September 18, 2012, to four years, nine months in prison for his role in soliciting and accepting illegal bribes for his mother, as well as a drug offense. This case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Douglas W. Gilfillan prosecuted the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Pressemails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia Atlanta Division is http://www.justice.gov/usao/gan/.
corruption WICHITA—A former officer of the Wichita Police Department and a co-defendant have pleaded guilty in a scheme to pay a bribe in an unsuccessful effort to keep the officer from losing her job, U.S. Attorney Barry Grissom said today. Former officer Joletta Vallejo, 35, Wichita, Kansas, and Patrick Melendrez, 40, Wichita, Kansas, each pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud. Vallejo was employed by the police department from January 9, 2006 to August 24, 2012. In her plea, she admitted that on October 16, 2011, two citizens approached her to make a report they were victims of an aggravated robbery, aggravated kidnaping, aggravated battery, and attempted first-degree murder. Vallejo did not follow the police department’s policies in responding and filing their complaints. As a result of her failure to follow department policies, Vallejo was investigated by the police department’s Professional Standards Bureau. When she was interviewed, she lied to the investigators. When she became aware she was going to be fired, she and Melendrez devised a scheme to attempt to keep her job. On August 22, 2012, Vallejo created a Google Voice number in the name of co-defendant Melendrez. They used that number to call and text one of the citizens and offer him money to recant the statements he had made to police about Vallejo’s conduct. The citizen’s response was part of an undercover investigation. Sentencing is set for November 18. They face a maximum penalty of 20 years and a fine up to $250,000. Grissom commended the Wichita Police Department, the FBI, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Debra Barnett for their work on the case.
corruption A former employee of the Michigan State Housing Development Authority was sentenced today to a year in prison after her conviction on charges related to bribery and fraud. Angela Reed, age 42, of Detroit, pleaded guilty on November 6, 2012, to one count of conspiracy to accept bribes and make false claims to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development before U.S. District Judge Julian Abele Cook, Jr., who imposed sentence today. Reed was the waiting list coordinator for the Homeless Assistance Recovery Program, a HUD program established to give homeless persons preference in the awarding of housing vouchers. Reed and other co-defendants devised a scheme to have persons on the voucher waiting list improve their chances of getting their vouchers much more quickly by creating false document so that they would receive certification even though they were not homeless. At the direction of Reed and her co-defendants, applicants made false entries in their applications. The scheme also involved the forging of signatures of employees of homeless shelters. In return, Reed received cash from the persons who fraudulently received homeless vouchers In addition to Ms. Reed four other persons have been convicted for their participation in this scheme. “The defendant abused her position of trust to divert benefits intended for people who are homeless,” McQuade said. “Prosecutions like this one are necessary to ensure the integrity of programs to help those in true need.” The case was investigated by special agents of the FBI and the HUD Office of Inspector General with the assistance of Michigan State Housing Development Authority.
corruption TUCSON, AZ—On August 19, 2013, Luis Carlos Vasquez, 33, of Douglas, Arizona, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge David C. Bury to 151 months’ imprisonment. Vasquez was found guilty by a federal jury on February 14, 2013, of one count of conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute marijuana, one count of possession with intent to distribute marijuana, one count of conspiracy to import marijuana, and one count of importation of marijuana, aid and abet. United States Attorney John Leonardo stated, “When law enforcement officers like Luis Vasquez conspire with others to violate the very laws they are sworn to enforce, it undermines public confidence in the entire criminal justice system. He is deserving of the harsh punishment he received as he has not only disgraced himself and betrayed the public trust placed in him, but he has insulted the vast majority of his fellow officers who strive every day to perform a difficult job with integrity, honesty, and dedication.” The evidence at trial showed that Vasquez used his position as an inspector at the Douglas Port of Entry to allow over 1,200 pounds of marijuana into the United States from Mexico. On at least two occasions, Vasquez, along with other members of the conspiracy, imported a large quantity of marijuana from Mexico into the United States through the Douglas Port of Entry. Vasquez’s role in the conspiracy was to use his position as a customs officer to allow pick-up trucks loaded with marijuana to cross the international border without inspection. The investigation in this case was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of Homeland Security, Customs and Border Protection and Office of the Inspector General, and the Douglas Arizona Police Department. The prosecution was handled by James T. Lacey, Assistant U.S. Attorney, District of Arizona, Tucson.
corruption Charles M. Oberly, III, United States Attorney for the District of Delaware, and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt announce that former Camden Town Manager James O. Plumley, III, age 62, pleaded guilty today to conspiracy to commit mail fraud before United States District Court Judge Richard G. Andrews. Plumley’s guilty plea stems from his role in a kickback scheme that he orchestrated to unlawfully defraud the state of Delaware of over $200,000 in years 2004 through 2008. Plumley’s partner in the scheme—William P. Mahon, of W.P. Mahon Inc., a contractor in Wilmington—also pleaded guilty today. From facts disclosed at the plea hearing, Plumley was employed at Roofing Resources Inc. in 2004 through 2008 and was responsible for assisting the state of Delaware’s Division of Facilities Management (DFM) select qualified contractors to repair and maintain roofs at state-owned facilities. Plumley used this position to steer roofing contracts to Mahon. In return and at Plumley’s direction, Mahon inflated his project bids by a specified amount, which he later deposited into Plumley’s checking account as a kickback after the DFM paid him for the job. Over the course of the scheme, the FBI was able to identify $204,000 in kickbacks that Plumley received from Mahon—money that Plumley and Mahon agreed to repay to the state of Delaware pursuant to their plea agreements. This case was made possible through substantial cooperation by the Camden Police Department—including Chief of Police William E. Bryson and Captain Gary Melvin—who conducted the initial investigation of Plumley and provided the FBI with a strong foundation for its case here. The case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Shawn A. Weede and Jennifer L. Hall. For further information, please contact Public Information Officer Kimberlynn Reeves at (302) 573-6277, ext. 16287.
corruption BROWNSVILLE, TX—Former 404th State District Judge Abel Corral Limas has been ordered to prison following his conviction for racketeering, United States Attorney Kenneth Magidson announced today. Limas pleaded guilty March 31, 2011. Today, U.S. District Judge Andrew Hanen, who accepted the guilty plea, handed Limas a total sentence of 72 months in federal prison. At the hearing, additional testimony was presented concerning the impact suffered by victims with one victim testifying there was “outrage and shock at the magnitude of the corruption.” Limas admitted to the court that his conduct was “not a mistake, it was intentional,” and he had destroyed the public’s view of the local judiciary. Limas was further ordered to pay restitution of approximately $6,777,270.50 and will serve a term of three years of supervised release following completion of the prison sentence. An additional amount of $257,300 was ordered forfeited as proceeds derived from the offense. “It critical to our court system that justice is administered fairly and without any undue influence,” said Magidson. “This case and the sentencing today serves as a reminder that this behavior will not be tolerated in the Southern District of Texas. We will continue our efforts against public corruption and will pursue prosecution in these matters when identified to us our partner law enforcement agencies.” Limas, 57, a life-long resident of Brownsville, practiced criminal and family law in south Texas during the late ‘80s and the ‘90s before assuming the judgeship of the 404th District in 2000. Limas served as judge for eight years, retiring in December 2008. Thereafter, he was associated with the law firm of Rosenthal & Watson, an Austin firm, as “of counsel.” At the time of his guilty plea, Limas admitted his part in use of the office of judge of the 404th District Court as a criminal enterprise to enrich himself and others through extortion. Limas accepted money and other consideration from attorneys in civil cases pending in his court in return for favorable pre-trial rulings in certain cases, including a case involving a helicopter crash at South Padre Island in February 2008. Limas specifically admitted to receiving $8,000 in May 2008, a payment described as eight “golf balls,” for favorable rulings. Evidence also showed Limas participated in a series of meetings with attorneys Marc Garrett Rosenthal and Jim Solis in the summer of 2008 during which they planned and negotiated the terms of Limas’ employment as an “of counsel” attorney with the firm. During those meetings, Rosenthal promised Limas an advance of at least $100,000, as well as a percentage of attorneys’ fees earned in the helicopter crash case in return for favorable rulings on the case. Limas’ employment arrangements were confirmed in calls on August 28, 2008, between Limas and his wife and son. Limas was expecting to be “cut in” on 10 percent of the settlement/judgment of the helicopter crash case pending in his court and the $100,000 advance. On December 31, 2008, Limas received a check for $50,000 payable from the Rosenthal & Watson Law Firm. On January 2, 2009, Limas received a check for $50,000 from Solis. In October 2009, the helicopter case settled for approximately $14 million and Limas received approximately $85,000 from the Rosenthal & Watson Law Firm approximately two months later. To date, a total of eight defendants have entered guilty pleas to related violations in the FBI’s four-year public corruption investigation, including Jose Santiago “Jim” Solis, former Texas State Representative; local attorney Jose “Joe” Valle; former Cameron County District Attorney’s Office investigator Jaime Munivez; Jose Manuel “Meme” Longoria; Armando Pena; and his wife, Karina. Three others—attorneys Ray Roman Marchan, Marc Garrett Rosenthal, and former Cameron County District Attorney Armando Villalobos were found guilty of public corruption-related charges involving their association with Limas after separate jury trials. Marchan was previously sentenced to 42 months’ imprisonment, which was vacated upon his death. Solis was sentenced August 2, 2013, to 47 months, while Rosenthal and Villalobos will be sentenced Septemer 23 and October 15, 2013, respectively. Limas was permitted to remain on bond and voluntarily surrender to a U.S. Bureau of Prisons facility to be determined in the near future. The investigation has been conducted by the FBI with the assistance of the Drug Enforcement Administration and Brownsville Police Department. Southern District of Texas Assistant United States Attorneys (AUSA) Michael Wynne and Oscar Ponce are prosecuting this case. The cases against Villalobos and Rosenthal are being prosecuted under the direction of the Western District of Texas by AUSAs Wynne and Greg Surovic.
corruption RALEIGH - United States Attorney Thomas G. Walker announced that in federal court today Ademola L. Ejire, 53, pled guilty to mail fraud, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1341. U.S. Attorney Walker stated, “Mr. Ejire was entrusted with federal grant funds earmarked for the education and nurturing of young minds in the fields of math and science. Unfortunately, he breached that trust.” According to the July 23, 2013, criminal information, Ejire was employed at Shaw University as the principal investigator for the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Research Apprenticeship Program (RAP) grant and was responsible for managing the program for which the University was a recepient. The EPA RAP grant provides funding for a program for specific high school students who have an interest in science and math. Students who meet the academic and attendance criteria in the eighth grade can apply for entry into the program. At the end of the application process, 10 to 12 students are chosen to enter the program in the ninth grade. This is an academic program designed to nurture their science and math backgrounds. From 2001 to July 2012, Ejire fraudulently represented that his wife was an employee of Shaw University working as the EPA program coordinator for the EPA RAP grant and that his children were participants in the EPA RAP grant by submitting falsified timesheets. The scheme enabled Ejire to fraudulently obtain approximately $470,000. At sentencing, set for the court’s November 2013 term of court, Ejire faces up to 20 years imprisonment. "For years, Ademola Ejire funneled grant money intended for high school students into his own accounts. The FBI and our law enforcement partners uncovered his fraudulent scheme and vow to hold those accountable who are trusted to dispense government funding but choose instead to line their own pockets," said John Strong, Special Agent in Charge of the Charlotte Division of the FBI. “The funds for the Research Apprenticeship Program are intended to provide an opportunity for honest, hard-working students to realize their dream of a higher education," said Inspector in Charge Keith Fixel. “The United States Postal Inspection Service is committed to bringing those to justice who would steal those dreams through schemes involving the use of the U.S. mail.” The investigation of this case was conducted by United States Environmental Protection Agency-Office of Inspector General, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the United States Postal Inspection Service. Assistant United States Attorney Banumathi Rangarajan is handling the prosecution on behalf of the Eastern District of North Carolina.
corruption LAFAYETTE, LA—United States Attorney Stephanie A. Finley announced today a federal jury found St. Landry Parish School Board member Quincy Richard Sr., 51, of Opelousas, Louisiana, guilty of taking bribes for his vote in favor of a former candidate for St. Landry Parish Superintendent. United States District Judge Richard T. Haik presided over the trial. On August 20, 2013, after a two-day trial, a jury found Richard guilty of one count of conspiracy to commit bribery and two counts of bribery after deliberating for about an hour. Based on witness testimony and documents admitted into evidence, Richard was shown to have conspired with fellow St. Landry Parish School Board member John Miller, 72, of Opelousas, to receive bribe money from former school board superintendent candidate Joseph Cassimere in return for their support. During July, August, and September 2012, Richard and Miller had a number of private meetings with Cassimere where they negotiated price and payment from Cassimere in exchange for their favorable individual votes as school board members in support of Cassimere’s candidacy for superintendent. At the same time the screening process for the superintendent position was ongoing and by the week of September 16, 2012, five applicants had been publicly named. The final vote was scheduled for September 26, 2012. The defendants met with Cassimere on September 24, 2012, at the Quarters Restaurant in Opelousas and received $5,000 each in return for their votes. They made it clear that Cassimere had also secured their services, efforts, influence, and due diligence to secure the votes of other members of the school board for Cassimere’s candidacy. Richard added that Cassimere could also recoup his $10,000 bribe by adding that amount to his salary request. Richard and Miller instructed Cassimere on how to make and justify a meritorious salary request above the amount listed for the superintendent’s salary as advertised. This conversation of September 24, 2012, had been under FBI video and audio surveillance. After the defendants exited the restaurant, they were confronted by the FBI who recovered the $5,000 payments. Miller was indicted on October 24, 2012 and resigned from his position as a school board member July 28, 2013. Miller pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery July 1, 2013. U.S. Attorney Finley stated, “This case was about illegally selling votes. Quincy Richard was thinking about himself, not about the children, the community, or the school system. The jury listened to the witnesses, reviewed the evidence, and justice was served. Without citizens who come forward, bribery like this would corrode our public servants. This is a great step for the school board. I hope they can now move forward and take care of the educational work that needs to be addressed for the people of Opelousas.” “The FBI will continue to aggressively investigate any public corruption undermining critical government institutions that support children such as our public school systems,” said Michael J. Anderson, FBI Special Agent in Charge, New Orleans Division. Richard faces up to five years in prison, a $250,000 fine, and three years in prison for the conspiracy to commit bribery count. He also faces up to 10 years in prison, a $250,000 fine and three years of supervised release for each bribery count. Miller faces up to five years in prison, a $250,000 fine, and three years of supervised release for conspiracy to commit bribery. Sentencing dates have not been set. The Federal Bureau of Investigation, Alexandria Resident Agency, conducted the investigation with the assistance of the U.S. Department of Education, Office of Inspector General. Assistant U.S. Attorney Howard C. Parker is prosecuting the case.
corruption ALBUQUERQUE—This afternoon, U.S. District Judge William P. Johnson sentenced Armando C. Gutierrez, 65, of Corpus Christi, Texas, to 10 years in federal prison, followed by three years of supervised release, for his convictions for conspiracy, theft of government property, obstruction of justice, and money laundering. Gutierrez was ordered to pay $2,500,483 in restitution to the state of New Mexico, including $746,375, which is to be paid jointly with co-defendant Joseph C. Kupfer, 50, of Rio Rancho, New Mexico. The court previously entered an order requiring Gutierrez to forfeit $2,500,483, including his interest in his Corpus Christi residence, to the United States. Gutierrez’s sentence was announced by Acting U.S. Attorney Steven C. Yarbrough; New Mexico Attorney General Gary K. King; Dawn Mertz, Special Agent in Charge of the Phoenix Division of the IRS-Criminal Investigation; and Carol K.O. Lee, Special Agent in Charge of the Albuquerque Division of the FBI. In announcing the sentence, Acting U.S. Attorney Steven C. Yarbrough said, “Those who do business with the government must be held to the same high standards as government officials. When private citizens enter into contracts to provide services paid for with taxpayers’ monies, they become duty-bound to provide honest services for the monies they receive. The sentence imposed on Armando Gutierrez today appropriately penalizes him for violating that duty when he stole more than $2,500,000 in taxpayers’ monies and failed to provide any services for that money. When individuals—whether public officials or government contractors—abuse the public’s trust in this way, they corrupt the system and erode the public’s confidence in their government. I commend the New Mexico Attorney General’s Office for initiating the investigation of this case and the IRS and FBI for undertaking the comprehensive and complex investigation that permits us to hold Mr. Gutierrez responsible for stealing from the public he contracted to serve.” New Mexico Attorney General Gary King said, “I am pleased that the fruits of our investigation were used to help secure convictions against those who violated the public trust. I highly commend our AG investigators for their hard work in tracking down the misuse of public funds that led to this prosecution. I very much appreciate the cooperation extended to my office by the U.S. Attorney’s Office.” “A lengthy prison sentence is what happens when individuals steal federal funds then obstruct and conceal their crimes. In this case, Mr. Gutierrez misappropriated voter education funds and used the money for his own benefit. IRS-Criminal Investigation, along with our law enforcement partners, will continue to aggressively investigate the theft of taxpayer dollars,” stated IRS-Criminal Investigation Special Agent in Charge Dawn Mertz. “Those of us in government entrusted with taxpayer’s hard earned funds have an obligation to see that money is properly spent,” said FBI Special Agent in Charge Carol K.O. Lee. “In this situation, money that was designated to promote a fundamental right and civic obligation was instead stolen by greedy and unscrupulous individuals more concerned with their own comfort and wealth. The FBI appreciates the efforts of its special agents, as well as the IRS-Criminal Investigation and the New Mexico Attorney General’s Office, to bring these people to justice.” This case was initiated in December 2010 by the filing of a three-count indictment charging Kupfer and his wife, Elizabeth D. Kupfer, 51, with failing to report at least $768,333 in taxable income during tax years 2004 through 2006 and evading $286,175 in federal taxes. An 11-count superseding indictment was filed in July 2011, adding Gutierrez as a defendant and five counts charging Gutierrez and Kupfer with conspiracy and theft of government property relating to federal Help America Vote Act (HAVA) funds administered by former New Mexico Secretary of State (NMSOS) Rebecca Vigil-Giron. The superseding indictment also charged Gutierrez with two counts of obstruction of justice relating to a federal audit and investigation into the misuse of federal HAVA funds and one count of laundering unlawfully obtained proceeds and retained the original tax evasion charges against the Kupfers. At the time of the events described in the superseding indictment, Gutierrez and Kupfer were providing consulting services to the NMSOS under HAVA contracts, and Mrs. Kupfer was an employee of the New Mexico Attorney General’s Office (NMAGO) who had been detailed to work for the NMSOS. The court severed the three tax evasion counts from the other eight counts in the superseding indictment for purposes of trial and scheduled separate trials for the Kupfers on the three tax evasion charges (the tax trial) and for Gutierrez and Kupfer on the conspiracy, theft, obstruction of justice, and money laundering charges (the HAVA trial). The tax trial commenced on August 13, 2012, and concluded on August 17, 2012, when the jury returned a guilty verdict against the Kupfers on all three tax evasion charges. The evidence established that, during the years 2004 through 2006, Kupfer received income, including federal HAVA funds, from Kupfer Consulting (KC), a business owned and operated by Kupfer, and the Kupfers reported income from KC in their joint personal tax returns. During those three years, the Kupfers received $1,304,421 in revenue from KC but reported only $502,541 in their tax returns. The Kupfers concealed approximately $768,333 in income by providing incomplete information to their tax preparer and thus avoided paying taxes on that money. The HAVA trial began on January 22, 2012 and ended on January 31, 2013, when the jury returned guilty verdicts against Gutierrez and Kupfer on the conspiracy and theft of government property charges and against Gutierrez on the obstruction of justice and money laundering charges. In summary, the evidence established that, between April 2003 and December 2006, the NMSOS administered almost $20 million in federal HAVA funds, which were designated for voter education, increasing voter registration, and meeting new standards for election administration and voting systems, through a number of contracts. The contracts included a multi-million-dollar contract for voting-related advertising awarded to A. Gutierrez and Associates Inc. (AGA), which was owned and operated by Gutierrez and three small contracts for increasing voting accessibility for the disabled that were awarded to KC, Kupfer’s business. According to the evidence, Gutierrez and Kupfer conspired together to defraud the United States by stealing federal HAVA funds and converting the funds to their own use. Between September 2004 and October 2006, AGA received a total of $6,271,810 in federal HAVA funds from the state of New Mexico, but Gutierrez submitted documentation supporting only $3,385,151 in services and costs, resulting in an overpayment of $2,500,483 to which AGA was not entitled. In addition to the three small contracts totaling $70,000, which were awarded to KC by the NMSOS, AGA made nine payments totaling $746,375 in federal HAVA funds to Kupfer between October 2004 and November 2006, which far exceeded the value of any work that Kupfer ever actually performed for AGA under the HAVA contract. In early 2007, the Election Assistance Commission began an audit into the use of federal HAVA funds by the NMSOS. The AGA HAVA contract immediately became the primary focus of the audit because AGA could not provide documentation to support the federal HAVA funds AGA received. In an effort to provide documentation for the federal HAVA funds AGA received, AGA provided 187 fraudulent invoices totaling $1,137,000 that purported to represent payment to media vendors when, in fact, AGA never paid any vendors based on these invoices. Subsequent to the EAC audit and in response to federal grand jury subpoenas, AGA and KC submitted fraudulent invoices that purported to support the nine payments totaling $746,375 that KC received from AGA between October 2004 and November 2006. Three of these invoices sought payments in the aggregate amount of $236,605 for production of a poll worker training video that was actually produced by another subcontractor at the cost of $75,000. On May 14, 2013, Mrs. Kupfer was sentenced on her tax evasion conviction to three years in prison, followed by three years of supervised release. Mrs. Kupfer also was ordered to pay $288,339 in restitution to the IRS. Kupfer’s sentencing hearing is scheduled for September 11, 2013. At sentencing, Kupfer faces a maximum penalty of five years in prison on the conspiracy charge and a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison on each of the theft of government property charges. He also may be fined up to $250,000 on each count of conviction. The case was investigated by the IRS-Criminal Investigation and the Albuquerque Field Office of the FBI, with assistance from the New Mexico Attorney General’s Office. The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Tara C. Neda, Jeremy Peña, and Cynthia L. Weisman.
corruption HUNTINGTON, WV—A former program manager pleaded guilty today in federal court in connection with a theft scheme that took thousands of dollars worth of diesel fuel from a military facility located in Putnam County, announced U.S. Attorney Booth Goodwin. Matthew Todd Brock, 42, of Hurricane, West Virginia, pleaded guilty to theft of government property before United States District Judge Robert C. Chambers in Huntington. Brock, who was hired in September 2010 as the program manager for the Naval Special Warfare Command (NSW) program in Red House, began using a government-issued credit card to make illegal fuel purchases. Beginning in February 2012 and continuing through March 2012, Brock illegally used the credit card to put fuel into his personal vehicle and family members’ vehicles. In total, Brock made approximately $5,619 in illegal fuel purchases using the credit card. Additionally, beginning in May 2012, Brock began stealing diesel fuel from the NSW Ops Stock program in Red House and later sold the fuel to an acquaintance for $1 per gallon. Brock sold the stolen diesel fuel once or twice per week for approximately eight months. Over that time period, Brock illegally sold a total of nearly $15,000 in diesel fuel that he stole from the facility. The NSW, a component of the U.S. Navy, contracted with the West Virginia National Guard to run its Operational Stock (Ops Stock) program to store and maintain equipment for naval operations at the Guard’s Combined Support Maintenance Shop facility in Red House. The equipment maintained by the National Guard as part of the Ops Stock program used diesel fuel. In a related matter, Charles Raymond Franklin, 59, of Red House, West Virginia, was charged in July in a three-count indictment for conspiring to steal and receive public property and conspiring to receive stolen government property. Franklin is alleged to have knowingly received approximately 196 gallons of diesel fuel that was stolen from the National Guard’s Combined Support Maintenance Shop on February 15, 2013. Franklin faces up to five years on the receiving stolen property charge and up to 10 years in prison on each charge of conspiring to receive stolen government property, if convicted. Franklin also faces a $250,000 fine on each count. Brock faces up to 20 years in federal prison and a $500,000 fine when he is sentenced on November 18, 2013. The investigation was conducted by the FBI. Assistant United States Attorney Blaire Malkin is in charge of the prosecution.
corruption SACRAMENTO, CA—When you know of public corruption or government fraud, who should you call? New billboards have been installed along Highway 99 in Fresno and Bakersfield to alert the public of the toll-free number that enables individuals to report these crimes to the Sacramento Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (Sacramento FBI). “Individuals with an awareness of wrongdoing may not know that they can report their observations, let alone know who to report the activity to,” said Supervisory Special Agent Malcolm Palmore. “The majority of public officials are truly committed to the communities they serve; however, the toll-free number simplifies the reporting process and ensures that we can act as necessary to investigate allegations and bring those who exploit their public positions—elected and appointed—for personal or private gain.” The Sacramento FBI’s toll-free hotline—855-4-NO-PCGF (855-466-7243)—was launched approximately one year ago to streamline reporting of public corruption and government fraud in the 34 counties that the Sacramento FBI serves. The "855 for no public corruption and government fraud" hotline offers the public one number to remember. The Sacramento FBI then routes the calls to the appropriate agent in the area where the alleged crime has occurred or is occurring. While it is possible for a tipster to remain anonymous should an investigation lead to indictment, callers are asked to leave their names, telephone numbers, and brief descriptions of their concerns and observations on the voicemail line to initiate communication. Agents review voicemail daily and contact callers for follow-up when needed. What is public corruption and government fraud? Public corruption and government fraud are white-collar crimes that can impact national security and our way of life. Such activity wastes billions of tax dollars annually. Examples of these crimes include bribery, extortion, embezzlement, racketeering, kickbacks, and money laundering, as well as wire, mail, bank, and tax fraud. The FBI remains committed to ensuring that such behavior is fully investigated and, if necessary, prosecuted under the law.
corruption BUFFALO, NY—U.S. Attorney William J. Hochul, Jr. announced today that James Bagarozzo, 57, of Buffalo, New York, who was convicted of stealing $210,000 from the city of Buffalo, a governmental agency that receives federal funding, was sentenced to 30 months in prison by U.S. District Judge Richard J. Arcara. The defendant has also been ordered to pay $210,000 in restitution. Assistant U.S. Attorney Maura K. O'Donnell, who handled the case, stated that the defendant was employed by the city of Buffalo for approximately 30 years. In 2003, Bagarozzo began working as a parking meter mechanic for the city. In that capacity, the defendant was responsible for repairing defective parking meter machines but was not authorized to collect any money deposited into the machines. Beginning in July 2003 and continuing through December 2011, instead of making necessary repairs, Bagarozzo intentionally damaged in excess of 75 parking meters. Those efforts made it easier for the defendant to steal quarters inserted into the meters by the public. The defendant stored the stolen quarters in bags in his car or in his pants pockets. Bagarozzo used the money to pay for personal expenses and the expenses of his family members. The government’s evidence included statements from employees at a local bank where Bagarozzo regularly deposited large quantities of the stolen quarters. Bank tellers stated that the defendant would deposit between $3,000 and $5,000 a week. In 2011, the city of Buffalo’s Department of Parking Enforcement initiated a review of parking meters after suspecting that quarters were being stolen from the meters. Subsequently, video surveillance was conducted that showed that the defendant stole quarters from the meters on a daily basis. "What may have begun as a theft of nickels and dimes in the end was the equivalent of a major bank heist,” said U.S. Attorney Hochul. “This defendant admitted stealing almost a quarter-million dollars that would have gone to the residents of Buffalo. That the defendant operated day in and day out over eight years, committed his crimes while on city time using city vehicles, and utilized his mechanic skills to alter parking meters and make his thefts easier, rank this as one of the more egregious breaches of honesty, ethics, and the public trust Buffalo has seen.” U.S. Attorney Hochul further stated, “Let this case serve as yet another reminder that whether white-collar, blue-collar, or no-collar, none is immune from prosecution if they violate their oath to the public or break the laws of this nation.” Bagarozzo was arrested in December 2011 along with another employee, Lawrence Charles, who was also employed as a parking meter mechanic. Charles pleaded guilty to a similar charge on September 4, 2012, and will be sentenced on August 29, 2013, at 1:00 p.m. The arrests are the culmination of an investigation on the part special agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, under the direction of Acting Special Agent in Charge Richard M. Frankel, and the Buffalo Police Department, under the direction of Commissioner Daniel Derenda.
corruption Coin Crime The Case of the Parking Meter Thief 08/16/13 A longtime employee of the city of Buffalo, New York was sentenced to 30 months in jail today for stealing more than $200,000—all in quarters—from the city’s parking meters over a period of eight years. James Bagarozzo, who had been employed by the city for more than three decades, became a parking meter mechanic in 2003—but instead of repairing the meters, he and an accomplice rigged more than 75 of them so he could steal quarters. Over time, his small-change crime added up. “When he went to work,” said Special Agent Rob Gross, who investigated the case out of our Buffalo Division, “half of his day was spent stealing from the city.” After Bagarozzo and fellow city employee Lawrence Charles were arrested in December 2011, investigators found some $47,000 in cash and quarters in Bagarozzo’s home, including $40,000 hidden in his bedroom ceiling. James Bagarozzo rigged parking meters to facilitate his theft of more than $200,000 from the city of Buffalo, New York. As a parking meter mechanic, Bagarozzo was supposed to service and repair the city’s 1,200 mechanical machines, but he didn’t have access to their coin canisters and was not authorized to collect money. Instead, he rigged the meters so that deposited quarters never dropped into the coin canisters. Then he retrieved the money for himself. Beginning in 2003 and continuing until the time of his arrest years later, the 57-year-old stole thousands upon thousands of quarters, using bags in his car or his deep-pocketed work pants to transfer the loot to his home, where he rolled the change in coin wrappers and exchanged it for cash at the bank. “The bank never suspected,” Gross said, “because Bagarozzo told the tellers he had a friend with a vending machine business. He developed such a good relationship with the bank tellers,” Gross explained, “that they eventually gave him boxes to use that held exactly $500 worth of quarters. He went to the bank several times a week with a $500 box of quarters and got cash in return.” The scam might have continued indefinitely if not for the appointment of a new parking commissioner, who noticed a significant difference in revenue between the city’s mechanical meters and newer electronic machines. In September 2010, the city’s Division of Parking Enforcement began an investigation that expanded to include the Buffalo Police Department, and eventually the local authorities asked the FBI for assistance. Bagarozzo and Charles—who is scheduled to be sentenced in two weeks—were caught on video committing the thefts on a daily basis. “Unless you were really paying attention,” Gross said, “it looked like they were fixing the meters. In reality, they were stealing from them.” In September 2012, Bagarozzo pled guilty to theft from programs receiving federal funds and agreed to pay restitution of $210,000. According to the U.S. attorney who prosecuted the case, Bagarozzo used the meter money to pay for personal and family expenses. “This case is a classic example of how public corruption strikes at the heart of government’s ability to serve its people,” said Richard Frankel, acting special agent in charge of our Buffalo Division. “We are gratified to see justice served in this case,” he said, adding that “the FBI remains vigilant against all forms of public corruption.” Resources: - Press release - More information on the case
corruption NORFOLK, VA—Patrick R. Lambert, 56, of Virginia Beach, Virginia, was sentenced today to 12 months in prison, followed by three years of supervised release, for fraud in connection with a local government receiving federal funds. Neil H. MacBride, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, and Royce E. Curtin, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation Norfolk Office, made the announcement after sentencing by Chief United States District Judge Rebecca Beach Smith. Lambert pleaded guilty on May 9, 2013. According to court documents Lambert was a facilities maintenance supervisor with the city of Norfolk and was acquainted with Andrew T. Zoby, Jr., who had a plumbing contract with the city of Norfolk. Lambert owned a home and several rental properties in the cities of Norfolk and Virginia Beach and at various times from approximately 2006 through 2011 would request that Zoby’s plumbing business perform certain work on the properties. Zoby’s employees performed the requested work which had a total value of $17,547.57. Lambert did not pay Zoby or his company for the work that was performed on these properties. In order to obtain reimbursement for these services, Zoby, with the knowledge of Lambert, would submit fraudulent invoices for alleged plumbing services to the city of Norfolk. Lambert was aware of and acquiesced in the payment of these fraudulent invoices. As a result of this scheme, Lambert received free plumbing services in the approximate amount of $17,547.57, and Zoby was reimbursed this amount from the city of Norfolk funds. Zoby was sentenced to 15 months in prison on July 10, 2013. Zoby was also involved in a bribery scheme with another former city employee, Michael Brown, who is scheduled for sentencing September 25, 2013. This case was investigated by Federal Bureau of Investigation, Norfolk Office. Assistant United States Attorney Robert J. Seidel, Jr. prosecuted the case on behalf of the United States. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia at http://www.justice.gov/usao/vae.
corruption WASHINGTON—The former Ohio deputy treasurer and a lawyer from Columbus, Ohio have been indicted and accused of engaging in a bribery and money laundering scheme involving the Ohio Treasurer’s Office. Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, First Assistant U.S. Attorney Mark T. D’Alessandro of the Southern District of Ohio, Special Agent in Charge Kevin R. Cornelius of the FBI’s Cincinnati Division, and Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine made the announcement. Amer Ahmad, 38, of Chicago, and Mohammed Noure Alo, 35, of Columbus, were indicted on August 15, 2013, and charged with conspiracy and honest services wire fraud. Ahmad is also charged with money laundering, conspiracy to commit money laundering, federal program bribery, and making false statements. According to court documents, from approximately January 2009 through January 2011, Ahmad and others allegedly conspired to use Ahmad’s role as deputy treasurer to direct official state of Ohio broker services business to Douglas E. Hampton, 39, a securities broker from Canton, Ohio, in return for payments from Hampton. Ahmad and Joseph Chiavaroli, 33, of Chicago, allegedly concealed those payments from Hampton by passing them through the accounts of a landscaping business in which Ahmad and Chiavaroli held ownership interests. Hampton also allegedly funneled in excess of $123,000 to Alo, an attorney and lobbyist who is Ahmad’s close personal friend and business associate. As a result of the scheme, Hampton allegedly received approximately $3.2 million in commissions for 360 trades on behalf of the Ohio Treasurer’s Office. Ahmad and his co-conspirators allegedly received in excess of $500,000 from Hampton. On August 14, 2013, Hampton pleaded guilty to conspiracy before U.S. District Judge Peter C. Economus of the Southern District of Ohio. Chiavaroli, who was also named in today’s indictment, pleaded guilty today to conspiring to commit money laundering. Sentencing for both defendants has not been scheduled. The maximum penalty for each count of conspiracy and for each count of false statement is five years in prison. Conspiracy to commit money laundering, money laundering and federal program bribery each carry a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison, and honest services wire fraud carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison. A criminal indictment is a formal accusation of criminal conduct, not evidence. A defendant is presumed innocent unless convicted through due process of law. The case was investigated by the FBI’s Central Ohio Public Corruption Task Force, which includes special agents from the FBI and the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Douglas W. Squires of the Southern District of Ohio and Trial Attorney Eric L. Gibson of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section.
corruption BATON ROUGE, LA—Acting United States Attorney J. Walter Green announced that another public official has been sentenced in Operation Blighted Officials. Chief U.S. District Judge Brian A. Jackson today sentenced Richard L. Chambers, Sr., age 68, of LaPlace, Louisiana, to 30 months’ imprisonment, one year of supervised release following imprisonment, a fine of $10,500, and forfeiture of $11,341. The defendant was sentenced after having pled guilty to racketeering based on his corrupt activity while deputy commissioner for the Louisiana Department of Insurance. Today’s sentence results from the defendant’s involvement in two corrupt schemes in 2009 and 2010 while serving as deputy commissioner for the Louisiana Department of Insurance. In the first scheme, the defendant used his official position to steer insurance business from municipalities and other entities to an insurance agent in exchange for a split of the commissions. The defendant created the scheme and estimated that it would generate between $200,000 and $4,000,000 in commissions. In the second scheme, the defendant took $5,000 in cash bribes to use his official position to fraudulently secure $500,000 in private investor funding for a conceptual trash can cleaning product. Acting U.S. Attorney Green stated, “This office, together with our federal, state, and local partners, will continue to aggressively pursue corrupt public officials who line their own pockets at the expense of the public trust. Such corruption undermines the dedicated and honest work performed by the vast majority of our public servants and will not be tolerated. Today’s sentence reflects the seriousness of public corruption, while also appropriately crediting a defendant who accepts responsibility and substantially cooperates with the investigation.” This matter is part of Operation Blighted Officials, a long-running public corruption investigation conducted primarily by the United States Attorney’s Office and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. This matter was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Corey R. Amundson who serves as the Senior Deputy Chief of the Criminal Division. Status of Other Operation Blighted Officials Defendants George L. Grace, Sr.: In March 2012, the former mayor of St. Gabriel, Louisiana, was convicted by a federal jury following a six week trial of violating RICO, engaging in honest services wire and mail fraud, bribery, obstruction of justice, making false statements, and use of an interstate facility in aid of racketeering. U.S. District Judge Maurice Hicks sentenced Grace to 22 years’ imprisonment. Thomas A. Nelson, Jr.: In June 2011, the former mayor of New Roads, Louisiana, was convicted by a federal jury following a two and a half week trial of violating the RICO Act, engaging in honest services wire fraud, using an interstate facility in aid of racketeering, and making false statements to the FBI. Chief Judge Jackson sentenced Nelson to 11 years’ imprisonment. Maurice Brown: In February 2011, the former mayor of White Castle, Louisiana, was convicted by a federal jury following a two week trial of violating the RICO Act, engaging in honest services wire and mail fraud, and use of an interstate facility in aid of racketeering. Chief Judge Jackson sentenced Brown to 10 years’ imprisonment. Frederick W. Smith: In October 2011, the chief of Police for Port Allen, Louisiana, was convicted by a federal jury following a two week trial of 11 counts of violating the RICO Act, engaging in honest services wire and mail fraud, and using an interstate facility in aid of racketeering. Chief Judge Jackson sentenced Smith to 7.5 years’ imprisonment. Derek Lewis: In July 2011, the former mayor of Port Allen, Louisiana, pled guilty to violating the RICO Act and agreed to cooperate with authorities. Chief Judge Jackson sentenced Lewis to 40 months’ imprisonment. Johnny Johnson: In July 2010, the former member of the Port Allen City Council pled guilty to using an interstate facility in aid of racketeering and agreed to cooperate with authorities. Chief Judge Jackson sentenced Johnson to two years’ probation, with a condition of having to spend six months in a halfway house.
corruption CHARLESTON, WV—Mingo County, West Virginia Circuit Judge Michael Thornsbury has been arrested on a federal criminal charge, U.S. Attorney Booth Goodwin announced today. Thornsbury is charged with conspiring to have a romantic rival illegally arrested and manipulating a state grand jury to pursue criminal charges against the same romantic rival. The charge was revealed in a federal grand jury indictment unsealed today. Judge Thornsbury is charged with conspiring to violate the constitutional rights of a victim identified as “R.W.,” who was the husband of Thornsbury’s secretary. In early 2008, the indictment alleges, Thornsbury began a romantic relationship with his secretary, identified as “K.W.,” which she broke off in June of that year. After K.W. ended the relationship, Thornsbury instructed a co-conspirator to plant illegal drugs underneath R.W.’s pickup truck and then arranged for police to stop R.W. and search for the drugs. The co-conspirator tasked with planting the drugs backed out of the plan at the last minute, thwarting Thornsbury’s scheme. Thornsbury then tried a different approach, the indictment alleges. R.W. worked at a coal preparation plant, where newly mined coal was processed before shipping. One of the plant’s functions was to remove scrap metal that had fallen into the coal during mining. Thornsbury learned that R.W.’s supervisors had given him permission to salvage scrap items, including drill bits, that were found amid coal at the plant, which were simply discarded if R.W. did not collect them. Thornsbury secretly instructed a West Virginia state trooper to file a criminal complaint that falsely alleged R.W. was stealing the scrap material from his employer. The trooper resisted, telling Thornsbury that R.W. was allowed to salvage the scrap, but ultimately yielded to Thornsbury’s demands, filing a false criminal complaint that led to R.W.’s arrest for grand larceny in December 2008. In January 2009, a new Mingo County grand jury was empanelled. According to the indictment, Thornsbury decided to use it to pursue his campaign against R.W. As the county’s sole circuit judge, Thornsbury was empowered to choose the foreperson of the new grand jury. He selected Jarrod Fletcher, Mingo County’s director of Homeland Security and Emergency Management, with whom Thornsbury co-owned a commercial real estate business and a wine shop. Thornsbury and Fletcher were also joint debtors on $1.8 million in loans they had taken out to finance their businesses. The business relationship between Thornsbury and Fletcher was not widely known, however, and Thornsbury did not disclose it when he made Fletcher the grand jury foreperson. By installing Fletcher as grand jury foreperson, Thornsbury was able to secretly co-opt the grand jury’s authority and use it to victimize R.W. In January 2009, Thornsbury created a set of purported grand jury subpoenas that ordered various local companies, including R.W.’s employer, to surrender private documents concerning R.W. He had Fletcher sign these purported subpoenas and send them out in the name of the grand jury. Thornsbury planned to ultimately use the grand jury to charge R.W. criminally. In March 2009, one of the recipients of Thornsbury’s so-called subpoenas, identified in the indictment as “DBC Inc.,” asked for more time to respond. Thornsbury entered a court order denying that request, without disclosing that he himself had ghostwritten the subpoena or that he was disqualified from any participation in the criminal case against R.W. Most of the companies targeted by Thornsbury’s subpoenas handed over the documents demanded, believing that the subpoenas were legitimate. DBC Inc., however, waged a legal battle against the subpoena it received and eventually discovered the deep business ties between Thornsbury and Fletcher. When DBC Inc. publicly revealed those ties in a court filing, Thornsbury was forced to abandon his plan to use the grand jury against R.W. Several years later, in 2012, R.W. was involved in an argument outside a convenience store with two other men. One of the men took a swing at R.W., and the other one drew a gun. The police were called, and the two other men were charged with assault. Nearly a month after the altercation, however, the charges against the two other men were dismissed, and R.W. was charged with assault and battery. Thornsbury, through a messenger, told the county prosecutor to ensure that R.W. received a sentence of six months’ confinement, an extraordinarily harsh punishment even if R.W. had been guilty. Prosecutors in turn offered R.W. a plea agreement that would have confined him for six months. R.W. refused it, and on the eve of trial, the prosecutor dismissed the case, stating that after reviewing the evidence against R.W., he believed the prosecution was not in the interest of justice. The indictment charges Thornsbury with conspiring to violate R.W.’s right against unreasonable arrest, guaranteed by the Fourth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, and his right not to be deprived of his liberty without due process of law, guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. The indictment also charges that Thornsbury conspired against the companies targeted by the purported grand jury subpoena, specifically, against their Fourteenth Amendment right not to be deprived of their property without due process of law. Thornsbury, 57, has served as Mingo County’s sole circuit judge since 1997. The FBI and the West Virginia State Police are conducting the investigation. Counsel to the U.S. Attorney Steven Ruby is in charge of the prosecution. An indictment is merely an accusation, and the defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
corruption WASHINGTON—Former Congressman Jesse L. Jackson, Jr., 48, was sentenced today in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia to 30 months in prison for conspiring to defraud his re-election campaigns of about $750,000 in funds that were used to pay for personal items and expenses, including high-end appliances and electronics, and then filing misleading reports to conceal seven years of the illegal activities. Jackson’s wife, Sandra Stevens Jackson, 49, a former Chicago alderman, was sentenced to one year's incarceration for filing false tax returns as part of the scheme. The judge permitted the Jacksons to stagger their prison sentences, with Mrs. Jackson beginning to serve her sentence following her husband’s release from incarceration. The sentencings were announced by U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen, Jr., Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office Valerie Parlave, and Chief of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI) Richard Weber. “Jesse Jackson, Jr.’s journey from the halls of Congress to federal prison is a tragedy of his own making,” said U.S. Attorney Machen. “Jackson’s political potential was unlimited, but he instead chose to treat his campaign account as a personal slush fund, stealing from the people who believed in him so he could live extravagantly. He squandered his great capacity for public service through outright theft. The prison sentence imposed today should serve as a wake-up call to other public officials who believe there are no consequences for betraying the public trust.” “In a betrayal of his oath of office and his duty to the citizens he represented, Mr. Jackson violated the integrity of our government and disrespected those he served,” said Assistant Director in Charge Parlave. “Mr. Jackson and his wife selfishly supported themselves with campaign funds and went to great lengths to hide their illegal activity, but they can hide no more as they pay the price with today’s sentences. Public corruption will not be tolerated in our community—no matter the position or names of the individuals involved.” “Today justice is served for the American public,” said IRS-CI Chief Weber. “This case exposed layers of greed and corruption masked by the illusion of success. The Jacksons were granted the privilege of political office to better the lives of others but used it instead for their own selfish benefit. The Jacksons failed to report over a half-million dollars in taxable income over a six-year period. Regardless of circumstances, no one is granted an exemption to commit crimes with impunity. IRS-CI remains committed to the fight against political corruption and tax evasion. This case exemplifies the strong impact we are making in this arena working in cooperation with our law enforcement partners.” Jesse Jackson, Jr. pleaded guilty in February 2013 to one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, mail fraud, and false statements. Sandra Stevens Jackson also pleaded guilty in February 2013. In her guilty plea, she admitted to filing false tax returns for calendar years 2006 through 2011. According to the government’s evidence, she knowingly and willfully failed to report nearly $570,000 in taxable income for those tax years. This led to an estimated tax loss of approximately $159,000. Jesse Jackson, Jr. was elected to Congress in 1995 and served until November 2012 as the representative for the 2nd Congressional District of Illinois. Sandra Stevens Jackson was an alderman in Chicago from May 2007 until January 2013. Additionally, she had various roles in her husband’s re-election campaigns, starting in January 2005, working at different points as treasurer, consultant, and campaign manager. According to the government’s evidence, Jackson and his wife carried out the fraud scheme from in or about August 2005 until in or about April 2012. Rather than using funds donated to the campaign as they were intended—for legitimate expenses associated with Jackson’s re-election—they used a substantial portion for personal expenditures. Jackson, who has residences in Chicago and Washington, D.C., also admitted taking steps to conceal seven years of illegal activities, including the filing of false and misleading reports with the Federal Election Commission (FEC) and the U.S. House of Representatives. According to the government’s evidence, money was channeled from the campaign to the Jacksons in the following ways: Jackson made $57,792 in direct expenditures from the campaign’s bank account from January 2006 through July 2011. In July 2007, for example, he withdrew $43,350 in campaign funds to purchase an official check made payable to a jeweler for a men’s gold-plated Rolex watch. In addition, he used $14,442 in campaign funds to pay down balances on person credit cards maintained by the Jacksons. The campaign maintained a credit card account, “Jackson for Congress,” from at least August 2005 through August 2012. Individual credit card members on this account included Jackson and his wife. During this period, the Jacksons used the credit cards to purchase merchandise and services that were personal in nature, including high-end electronic items; a washer, a dryer, a range, and refrigerator; collector’s items; clothing, food, and supplies; movie tickets; health club dues; personal travel, including a holistic retreat; and personal dining expenses. Campaign funds were used to pay $582,772 of personal purchases. In March 2006, Jackson directed that a $36,000 check from the campaign be issued to his wife’s business for billboard expenses. Sandra Stevens Jackson transferred this money from the business account to a personal account. Jackson and his wife, who controlled the personal account, used nearly all the money that purportedly was for billboard expenses to pay down personal debts. Additionally, Jackson paid a congressional staffer with funds from the campaign account so that the staffer could pay expenses on Jackson’s behalf, or, in some instances, give cash to Jackson. The campaign issued about $76,150 in checks to the staffer from about October 2008 until about March 2012, even though the staffer actually was entitled to only about $11,409 for her work. The staffer then expended nearly all of the remaining $64,741 for the personal benefit of Jackson and his wife. For example, the staffer used checks from the campaign to pay for $26,347 worth of work performed on the Jacksons’ home. According to the government’s evidence, the Jacksons took steps from 2005 until 2012 to ensure that materially false and misleading reports were filed with government entities. These reports were filed with the FEC and the House of Representatives. These actions were critical to carrying out the conspiracy because they enabled the conduct to continue without question for a lengthy period of time and without the questions from regulators and the public that likely would have ensued had truthful, accurate reports been filed. In announcing the sentences, U.S. Attorney Machen, Assistant Director in Charge Parlave and Chief Weber commended the work of those who investigated the case for the FBI and IRS-CI. They also expressed appreciation for the assistance provided by the U.S. Marshals Service on the asset forfeiture aspects of the case. In addition, they commended those who worked on the case from the U.S. Attorney’s Office. Finally, they acknowledged the work of Assistant U.S. Attorneys Matt Graves, Michael K. Atkinson, and Jonathan W. Haray of the Fraud and Public Corruption Section of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia who are investigating and prosecuting the matter, as well as Assistant U.S. Attorneys Catherine K. Connelly and Anthony Saler of the Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section.
corruption George Stanton, the former chief of staff to a member of the Detroit City Council, pleaded guilty today to accepting $15,000 in bribes from Roy Dixon, an investment sponsor before the two Detroit pension funds, in return for pushing Dixon’s investment proposal before the Police and Fire Retirement System, United States Attorney Barbara L. McQuade announced today. McQuade was joined in the announcement by Special Agent in Charge Robert Foley of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). During a hearing this afternoon before United States District Judge Nancy Edmunds, Stanton, 49, of Detroit, Michigan, admitted that during the latter part of 2007, he accepted multiple payments in cash amounting to $15,000 in total from Dixon as a reward for supporting Dixon’s proposed investment. Stanton served as the chief of staff for a member of the Detroit City Council. In 2006 and 2007, that city council member was selected by the city council to serve as a trustee of the Police and Fire Retirement System. Stanton’s duties as chief of staff included supporting and advising that city council member relating to duties as a trustee. In 2007, Dixon was acting as a representative of PR Investment Group, Ltd., a company that was seeking a $15 million investment from the Detroit pension funds in order to purchase speculative real estate in the Turks and Caicos Islands. Dixon gave $15,000 in cash to Stanton in an effort to secure the pension fund’s support for Dixon’s investment proposal. United States Attorney McQuade said, “Detroit’s bankruptcy and the risk to retirees’ pension benefits demonstrate the importance of rooting out corruption from Detroit’s two pension funds. The pension funds should be managed to benefit retirees, not to line the pockets of public officials.” Robert Foley, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation, said, "Public officials who accept bribes and choose to serve themselves rather than citizens by committing illegal acts, will face severe consequences. The FBI-led Detroit Area Public Corruption Task Force remains committed to ensuring citizens have honest government." Based on his guilty plea and felony conviction for accepting bribes, Stanton is facing a maximum of 10 years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000. A criminal indictment is pending against Dixon, against Jeffrey Beasley, the former Detroit city treasurer and trustee to the two Detroit pension funds; against Paul Stewart, a former vice president of a Detroit Police union and a former trustee of the Police and Fire Retirement; and against Ronald Zajac, the former general counsel of the two Detroit pension funds. As part of the indictment, Dixon is charged with paying bribes to Stanton, Beasley, Stewart, and others in return for their support of the Turks and Caicos investment. Furthermore, Dixon is charged with embezzling more than $3 million in Detroit pension fund money from a separate private equity investment by both Detroit retirement systems in a used car dealer who specialized in customers with poor credit. In addition, a number of other defendants have been convicted in relation to the pension fund investigation, including: Monica Conyers, a former trustee of the General Retirement System and former member of the Detroit City Council, for conspiracy to take bribes, including bribes relating to a proposed multi-million-dollar pension fund investment in Wireless Resources and a $10,000 extortion payment relating to the Police and Fire Retirement System’s investment in the Romulus Deep Injection Waste Well Samuel L. Riddle, Conyers’ chief of staff, for conspiracy to commit bribery and extortion relating to the Wireless Resources and Romulus Deep Injection Well investments DeDan Milton, a former Trustee of Detroit’s two pension funds, for conspiracy to commit bribery and extortion Andrew Park, an owner of Asian Village, who paid a bribe to obtain a $2.75 million loan from Detroit’s General Retirement System Derrick Miller, former chief information officer of Detroit, who accepted the bribe from Park and who took a kickback of more than $500,000 on a $44 million investment by Detroit’s two pension funds Chauncey Mayfield, for conspiracy to commit bribery with Treasurer Beasley by supplying Beasley and former Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick with tens of thousands of dollars in hotel, entertainment, and private jet flights, as well as a job for Beasley’s paramour and significant contributions to the Kilpatrick Civic Fund, all in return for maintaining Mayfield’s position as an investment advisor controlling over $200 million in pension fund money. The case was investigated by agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Internal Revenue Service, and the Department of Labor. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Robert Cares and David A. Gardey.
corruption BALTIMORE—Jennifer Owens, a/k/a O and J.O., age 31, of Randallstown, Maryland, pleaded guilty today to a racketeering conspiracy for smuggling drugs and other contraband for Tavon White and other member of the Black Guerilla Family (BGF) gang inside several correctional facilities. The guilty plea was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Secretary Gary D. Maynard of the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services; Baltimore Police Commissioner Anthony W. Batts; and Baltimore City State’s Attorney Gregg L. Bernstein. According to court documents, BGF has been the dominant gang at the Baltimore City Detention Center (BCDC) and in several connected facilities, including the Baltimore Central Booking Intake Center; the Women’s Detention Center, which houses many men; and in the Jail Industries Building. Jennifer Owens worked as a correctional officer (CO) at BCDC from 2007 to 2013. Owens admitted that she entered into a personal and sexual relationship with BGF gang leader Tavon White while he was an inmate at BCDC and has two children by White. According to her plea agreement, Owens frequently smuggled Percocet pills and Suboxone strips into BCDC on behalf of White and others. From 2010 to 2011, Owens smuggled marijuana and tobacco into the prison two to four times per week, but after that, she concentrated on pills and strips. Outside the prison, Owens frequently obtained contraband from other co-defendants and was paid either by transfers of funds onto Green Dot cards or by cash from these co-defendants. Owens also moved contraband internally within BCDC for others. Owens was aware that other co-defendants and many other correctional officers also smuggled contraband. Owens faces a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison for her role in the racketeering conspiracy. U.S. District Judge Ellen L. Hollander scheduled sentencing for January 24, 2014. The case arose from the efforts of the Maryland Prison Task Force, a group of local, state, and federal law enforcement agencies and prosecutors that met regularly for more than two years and generated recommendations to reform prison procedures. The investigation is continuing. U.S. Attorney Rosenstein recognized the efforts of the other members of the Maryland Prison Task Force, including: Colonel Marcus L. Brown, Superintendent of the Maryland State Police; Chief Mark A. Magaw of the Prince George’s County Police Department; United States Marshal Johnny Hughes; Special Agent in Charge Karl C. Colder of the Drug Enforcement Administration-Washington Field Division; Tom Carr, Director of the Washington-Baltimore High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area; and Dave Engel, Executive Director of the Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI, Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services, Baltimore Police Department, and Maryland Prison Task Force for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant United States Attorneys Robert R. Harding and Ayn B. Ducao, who are prosecuting this Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force case.
corruption WASHINGTON—Vernon Hawkins, who worked on an off-the-books get-out-the-vote effort preceding the 2010 District of Columbia mayoral primary, pled guilty today to making a false statement to federal authorities investigating allegations involving his candidate’s campaign. Hawkins, who was a volunteer advisor for the candidate, pled guilty to the felony charge in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. Among other things, he admitted that he helped provide a potential witness with approximately $8,000 to convince him to get out of town so that he would not be available to meet with federal agents investigating the campaign. The guilty plea was announced by U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen Jr.; Valerie Parlave, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI Washington Field Office’s Criminal Division; and Thomas J. Kelly, Special Agent in Charge of the Washington Field Office of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI). Hawkins, 74, of Washington, D.C., entered the plea before the Honorable Colleen Kollar-Kotelly. No sentencing date was set. The charge carries a statutory maximum of five years in prison, a fine of up to $250,000, and other penalties. The federal sentencing guidelines for the offense will be determined later by the court. Hawkins is among four people, all associated with the same mayoral campaign, to plead guilty to charges in a continuing investigation of campaign activities during the election. Thomas W. Gore, 58, the former assistant treasurer of the campaign, was sentenced on July 26, 2013, to six months in prison and six months of home detention for obstruction of justice and other charges; Gore also must perform 200 hours of community service. Howard L. Brooks, 65, a member of the campaign’s finance and treasury teams, was sentenced last year to 24 months of probation and ordered to perform 200 hours of community service for making a false statement to the FBI. Business owner Eugenia C. Harris, 76, pled guilty in July 2012 to one count of conspiring to violate federal campaign finance law and to obstruct justice; one count of engaging in fraud and making false statements, and one count of conspiring to violate District of Columbia campaign law. Harris is awaiting sentencing. “Today. Vernon Hawkins became the fourth person to plead guilty to a felony for trying to cover up corruption in the 2010 mayoral election,” said U.S. Attorney Machen. “Vernon Hawkins was at ground zero of a scheme to design, staff, and execute an off-the-books shadow campaign. After the election, he and his fellow campaign aides sought to impede our investigation by lying to the FBI, shredding documents, creating fake paperwork, and sending witnesses out of the jurisdiction. This guilty plea takes us one step closer to understanding the extent of the deception that tainted the 2010 campaign.” “Today, Mr. Hawkins admitted he knowingly lied to federal investigators in an attempt to influence the investigation into the 2010 District of Columbia mayoral election,” said Assistant Director in Charge Parlave. “Despite his attempt, the investigation continues and will not end until all those involved in illegal campaign activities are brought to justice.” Campaign Activities: According to a statement of offense signed by the government as well as the defendant, beginning in the spring of 2010 and continuing through the November election, Hawkins was a volunteer advisor for the campaign of a person described in charging documents as “Candidate A.” Hawkins provided advice to the candidate and other members of the campaign on matters such as field operations, staffing and communications. He also had contact with others outside the official campaign, including a person identified in the court documents as “Executive A,” who was the majority owner of a business, and Harris. During the campaign, Executive A, with assistance from Hawkins, Harris, and others, funded an unreported, off-the-books effort to support Candidate A by providing services and materials for get-out-the-vote activities. Harris arranged for, and paid expenses associated with, these services through her companies, Belle International Inc., and Details International Inc. In approximately June 2010, Hawkins and Harris met to discuss this get-out-the-vote effort. During this meeting, they also discussed Executive A’s interest in supporting the campaign of Candidate A. Hawkins then drew up a plan and budget. Sometime after this meeting, Harris and Hawkins met with Executive A about the get-out-the-vote plans. Later, there was a three-way telephone call among Hawkins, Harris, and Executive A to discuss the budget for an off-the books effort funded by Executive A to get out the vote. This budget included money for coordinators, canvassers, and drivers and for the rental of vans, among other expenditures. Harris later hired a consultant to coordinate this off-the books effort. In addition, another person became the transportation coordinator for the efforts funded by Executive A. As the primary election approached, Hawkins’ role in the campaign’s get-out-the-vote effort diminished, and his role increased in the efforts being funded by Executive A. The Federal Investigation In 2011, a federal investigation began into financing and other activities involving the campaign of Candidate A in the mayoral election. Later that year, Hawkins became aware that individuals associated with the campaign of Candidate A, as well as people associated with the efforts funded by Executive A, were being contacted by federal investigators. The statement of offense details a series of actions that Hawkins admits took place in ensuing months. In late November or early December 2011, the transportation coordinator told Hawkins that he had received a business card from a government investigator at his door. About one week later, Hawkins relayed this information to Harris. Hawkins and Harris met a few days after that and discussed the fact that people whom Harris had paid to provide services during the campaign were now meeting with representatives of the U.S. Attorney’s Office. Hawkins and Harris discussed the need for these individuals—specifically the transportation coordinator—to be out of town for about two to four weeks to delay meetings with law enforcement. Hawkins understood from this conversation that Harris had talked with Executive A about the need for such people, including the transportation coordinator, to be out of town for a period of time. He also understood that the consultant hired to coordinate the get-out-the-vote effort funded by Executive A already was away. In or about December 2011, Hawkins and Harris attempted to persuade the transportation coordinator to leave town for an extended period of time so that he, too, would be unavailable to speak with federal agents. The transportation coordinator later raised concerns with Hawkins that he would miss business opportunities if he left town and that he needed that income. Hawkins informed Harris about his conversation about income with the transportation coordinator. A few days later, she gave Hawkins an envelope, which he understood contained $4,000 in cash, to give to the transportation coordinator. Hawkins later provided the money to the transportation coordinator in a supermarket parking lot in Southeast Washington. In or about January 2012, Hawkins again ran into the transportation coordinator, who wanted additional money to go back out of town. Hawkins later provided another envelope, also from Harris, containing what he understood to be $4,000 in cash, in the supermarket parking lot. Finally, in August 2012, Hawkins, accompanied by his lawyer, participated in a voluntary interview with two FBI agents and representatives of the U.S. Attorney’s Office. During this interview, he stated that he did not know of anyone being asked or told to go out of town, that he never asked anyone to leave town so that they could not meet with investigators and that he did not help or assist with sending anyone out of town so they would not be able to speak with federal agents in this investigation. Hawkins made these false statements in an attempt to influence the federal investigation into the efforts funded by Executive A in the mayoral campaign. The other guilty pleas also involved efforts to impede the investigation. Brooks admitted making a false statement to investigators, and Gore admitted to making false statements and shredding documents. In her guilty plea, Harris admitted that she caused others to shred and destroy a large volume of paper records maintained by her businesses. She also admitted causing others to destroy stored electronic records from her businesses because they could have revealed what took place in the mayoral election. Finally, Harris also admitted that she made arrangements in early 2012 to travel to Brazil for three months in order to evade federal investigators. Efforts were made toward renting a house in Brazil before the trip was cancelled. In announcing the plea, U.S. Attorney Machen, Assistant Director in Charge Parlave, and Special Agent in Charge Kelly commended the work of those who investigated the case for the FBI and IRS-CI. They also expressed appreciation for the work done by those who handled the case from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, including Assistant U.S. Attorneys Lionel André, Loyaan Egal, Jonathan Haray, Jonathan Hooks, and Ephraim “Fry” Wernick; former Assistant U.S. Attorney Mary Chris Dobbie; Criminal Investigators Matthew Kutz, Mark Crawford, and Melissa Matthews; Legal Assistants Krishawn Graham and Nicole Wattelet; Paralegal Specialists Tasha Harris, Shanna Hays, and Corinne Kleinman; and Law Intern Lindsey Frye. Finally, they acknowledged the work of Assistant U.S. Attorney Ellen Chubin Epstein, who is investigating and prosecuting this matter.
corruption WASHINGTON—A former sergeant in the Portsmouth Sheriff’s Office (PSO) was indicted yesterday by a federal grand jury in the Eastern District of Virginia for accepting bribes in exchange for favors and referrals, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Neil H. MacBride of the Eastern District of Virginia. The indictment charges Melvin Hike, 65, of Portsmouth, Virginia, with one count each of conspiracy, federal programs bribery, attempted extortion under color of official right, and false statements. He faces a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison for the attempted extortion, 10 years in prison for the federal programs bribery, and five years in prison each for the conspiracy and false statements. Hike also faces a maximum fine of $250,000 for each count. The indictment was unsealed following Hike’s arrest this morning. According to the indictment, from 2008 to 2012, Hike was a PSO sergeant assigned to the warrant squad or to provide security in the Portsmouth Circuit Court. Person A was a bail bondsman based in Portsmouth whose income depended on the number of arrestee clients he served. At various times between 2008 and 2012, Person A gave Hike cash payments, and in exchange Hike referred arrestees to Person A as prospective clients. The indictment also alleges that in or about June 2010, Hike, acting under color of official right as a PSO sergeant, obtained a gift card valued at $250 to which he was not entitled, in exchange for his assistance in getting an arrestee released on bond and assigned a bondsman. On or about January 27, 2012, Hike allegedly made false statements to FBI agents investigating his conduct. According to the indictment, Hike stated that he had never accepted money from any bondsman, that he had never referred any arrestees to a bondsman, and that he had never accepted anything of value from an arrestee, knowing that all three statements were false. An indictment is merely an accusation, and a defendant is presumed innocent unless proven guilty in a court of law. This case was investigated by the FBI. Trial Attorneys Peter Mason and Monique Abrishami of the Public Integrity Section in the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Amy E. Cross of the Eastern District of Virginia are prosecuting the case.
corruption BOSTON—A federal grand jury in Springfield returned an indictment today against Lee Police Chief Joseph Buffis for extortion and three counts of money laundering. It is alleged that in February 2012 Buffis, 55, of Pittsfield, acting in his official capacity as Lee Police Department chief, extorted a $4,000 “donation” from two individuals who were facing prostitution-related charges. The “donation” was made payable to the Edward J. Laliberte Toy Fund, a holiday toy fund that Buffis controlled. Buffis deposited the $4,000 check into the Toy Fund’s bank account and quickly withdrew $3,990, which he then deposited into a joint bank account that he operated with his wife. The diverted money was then used to pay for various personal expenses. Buffis is alleged to have lied to law enforcement about the disposition of the funds. “To be entrusted to serve and protect is a great honor and privilege. The alleged actions of Chief Buffis disgrace the many incredible law enforcement stewards who uphold and enforce the law. Actions like these threaten the credibility of our justice system, and we will not stand idly by and allow the trust of our communities to be violated,” said United States Attorney Carmen M. Ortiz. Berkshire District Attorney David F. Capeless said, “The allegations contained in the federal indictment describe a serious breach of the public trust, and my office will continue to work with United States Attorney Ortiz and her office to see that justice is done and order restored. It should be made clear that these accusations are made against one man, Joseph Buffis, not the Lee Police Department or any other members of its force. My office will continue to work proudly alongside the Lee Police Department to ensure safety and justice in the town of Lee and throughout Berkshire County.” “This is another example of a successful investigation and extraordinary teamwork between the FBI, the Massachusetts State Police, the United States Attorney’s Office, and the Berkshire District Attorney’s Office. The conduct charged in this indictment demonstrates law enforcement’s commitment to pursue public corruption at any level. We will not tolerate these acts, especially from those who have sworn to serve and protect the community and its citizens,” said FBI Special Agent in Charge Vincent B. Lisi. If convicted, Buffis faces a maximum of 20 years in prison on each of the counts followed by five years of supervised release, and $250,000 fine. Buffis will be summoned to appear in court for his initial appearance. U.S. Attorney Ortiz; District Attorney Capeless; FBI Special Agent in Charge Lisi; and Colonel Timothy P. Alben, Superintendent of the Massachusetts State Police, made the announcement today. The U.S. Attorney’s Office would like to thank District Attorney Capeless and the Massachusetts State Police Berkshire Detective Unit for uncovering the alleged violations and initiating the investigation which led to today’s indictment. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven H. Breslow of Ortiz’s Springfield Branch Office. We are seeking the public’s assistance in this case. For those who have donated cash or toys to the Edward J. Lalilberte Toy Fund or for those who have applied to the Edward J. Laliberte Toy Fund, please contact the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Springfield Resident Agency, at (413) 732-0159. Please contact the FBI if you have any information, questions, or concerns regarding this matter. The details contained in the indictment are allegations. The defendant is presumed to be innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.
corruption BEAUMONT, TX—A former investigator for the Texas Health and Human Services Commission was sentenced to federal prison for theft violations in the Eastern District of Texas, announced U.S. Attorney John M. Bales today. Melva Darlene Blakemore, 62, of Diboll, Texas, pleaded guilty on March 26, 2013, to theft of federal funds and was sentenced to 12 months in federal prison today by U.S. District Judge Marcia Crone. Blakemore was also ordered to pay $27,208 in restitution. According to information presented in court, while employed as an investigator with the Texas Health and Human Services Commission, part of Blakemore’s job duties entailed her contacting individuals to advise them they could be indicted and prosecuted for receiving overpayments of benefits from federally funded programs, such as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (also known as SNAP or the food stamp program). Blakemore advised numerous beneficiaries that no charges would be filed against them if they agreed to repay the overpaid benefits directly to Blakemore in cash. Blakemore utilized this scheme on multiple occasions to obtain funds from individuals who had received overpayments. This case was investigated by the Nacogdoches County Sheriff’s Office, the Texas Rangers, the Texas Health and Human Services Commission-Office of Inspector General, and the FBI, and it was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Randall L. Fluke.
corruption LITTLE ROCK, AR—Christopher R. Thyer, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Arkansas, and Randall C. Coleman, Special Agent in Charge of the Little Rock Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), announced today that a federal grand jury returned an indictment charging former Arkansas State Police Lieutenant Sedrick L. Reed, age 43, and Lamont M. Johnson, age 45, with federal narcotics and firearms charges. The charges stem from an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s ArkTrust Public Corruption Task Force and Little Rock Police Department with the full cooperation of the Arkansas State Police. The investigation was also referred to as an Organized Crime and Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF) Operation Diverted Justice. The charges in the indictment and potential penalties are as follows: Count One - Reed and Johnson. Drug Conspiracy, 21 U.S.C. § 846. NLT 10 years and up to life imprisonment; NLT five years and up to life supervised release; Up to a $10 million fine. Count Two - Reed and Johnson Cocaine Distribution, 21 U.S.C. § 841(a)(1). Up to 20 years’ imprisonment; NLT three years and up to life supervised release; Up to a $1 million fine. Count Three - Reed Possession with Intent to Distribute Cocaine, 21 U.S.C. § 841(a)(1). NLT five years and up to 40 years’ imprisonment; NLT four years and up to life supervised release; Up to a $5 million fine. Count Four - Reed Possession with Intent to Distribute Heroin, 21 U.S.C. § 841(a)(1). NLT five years and up to 40 years’ imprisonment; NLT four years and up to life supervised release; Up to a $5 million fine. Count Five - Johnson Felon in Possession of a Firearm, 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1). NMT 10 years’ imprisonment; NMT three years’ supervised release; Up to a $250,000 fine. Count Six - Johnson Possession of a Defaced Firearm, 18 U.S.C. 922(k). NMT five years’ imprisonment; NMT three years’ supervised release; Up to a $250,000 fine. Count Seven - Johnson Possession of a Firearm in Furtherance of a Drug Trafficking Crime, 18 U.S.C. § 924(c). NLT five years and up to life imprisonment; NMT five years’ supervised release; Up to a $250,000 fine. Count Eight - Reed Possession of a Firearm in Furtherance of a Drug Trafficking Crime, 18 U.S.C. § 924(c). NLT five years and up to life imprisonment; NMT five years’ supervised release; Up to a $250,000 fine. The indictment also contains four forfeiture allegations related to firearms and assets, including $30,073 in U.S. Currency seized from Reed’s person and at Reed’s residence, and $57,595 in U.S. currency seized at Johnson’s residence. Reed and Johnson will appear before United States Magistrate Judge H. David Young for plea and arraignment later this month, at which time a trial date will be set. Reed and Johnson previously appeared before United States Magistrate Judge J. Thomas Ray for an initial appearance on a criminal complaint charging them with the conduct underlying count two. On July 23, 2013, following a hearing, Judge Ray entered an order of detention pending trial for Reed, finding by clear and convincing evidence that Reed presents a danger to the community and by a preponderance of the evidence that Reed presents a risk of flight. Also on July 23, 2013, following the United States’ presentation of evidence in support of detention, Judge Ray entered an order of detention without prejudice to Johnson presenting evidence at a later date. The investigation was conducted by the FBI’s ArkTrust Public Corruption Task Force with assistance from the Little Rock Police Department. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Julie Peters and Chris Givens. An indictment contains only allegations. The defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption ALBUQUERQUE—Carmella Martinez, 42, and her husband Paul G. Martinez, 44, both of Arroyo Seco, New Mexico, each pleaded guilty this morning to conspiracy to commit theft concerning programs receiving federal funds and to commit theft of government property. The guilty pleas were announced by U.S. Attorney Kenneth J. Gonzales; David A. Montoya, Inspector General, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD); and Carol K.O. Lee, Special Agent in Charge of the Albuquerque Division of the FBI. Carmella and Paul Martinez were charged in December 2012 in a 49-count federal indictment with conspiracy, theft from programs receiving federal funds, and theft of government property. According to the indictment, between November 2003 and December 2011, Carmella and Paul Martinez stole federal funds provided by HUD to the Taos County Housing Authority (TCHA) for a housing program that provides affordable housing for low-income Americans. During that time, Camella Martinez was employed by the TCHA, initially as a financial specialist and later as its executive director. HUD is a federal agency whose core mission is to make quality, affordable housing accessible to all Americans. It oversees and funds programs designed to provide affordable housing to low-income Americans, including the Housing Choice Voucher Program which is commonly referred to as Section 8. Through the Section 8 program, HUD pays rent subsidies known as housing assistance payments (HAP) to approved property owners and landlords on behalf of eligible low-income beneficiaries. According to the indictment, the TCHA administers the Section 8 program on behalf of HUD in Taos County and receives approximately $2.8 million in funds annually from HUD. According to the indictment, while employed by the TCHA, Carmella Martinez was responsible for processing HAP checks to approved Section 8 property owners and landlords and providing preliminary approval of requests for rent subsidies to property owners and landlords under the Section 8 program. She abused her position with TCHA by conspiring with her husband to engage in the theft of Section 8 housing funds. Carmella Martinez stole the money by issuing fraudulent HAP checks for Section 8 housing assistance to payees, including to Paul Martinez and to bank accounts held by her and Paul Martinez. Carmella and Paul Martinez then presented the fraudulent checks for payment at various locations. During today’s proceedings, Camella and Paul Martinez each pleaded guilty to count one of the indictment, charging them with conspiracy to commit theft concerning programs receiving federal funds and to commit theft of government property, and generally admitted the allegations in the indictment. In her plea agreement, Camella Martinez admitted that she began issuing fraudulent, duplicate Section 8 HAP checks for the benefit of herself and her husband in 2000. She further admitted that in 2003, Paul Martinez began conspiring with her to steal federal funds by engaging in a scheme to issue and to present fraudulent HAP checks for their mutual benefit. Carmella Martinez admitted that she and her husband engaged in their unlawful scheme until December 2011, when they learned they were the subjects of a criminal investigation. Carmella Martinez acknowledged that she and her husband stole at least $786,014.04 in federal funds through their unlawful scheme. In his plea agreement, Paul Martinez admitted that he began conspiring with his wife to steal funds from TCHA, a program that receives federal funds, in 2003, and that their scheme continued until December 2011, when they learned about the criminal investigation that led to the indictment against them. At their sentencing hearings, which have yet to be scheduled, Camella and Paul Martinez each face a maximum penalty of five years in federal prison and a $250,000 fine. Under the terms of their plea agreements, the couple will be required to pay at least $786,014.04 in restitution to the victims of their criminal activities. The United States will move to dismiss the remaining 48 counts of the indictment after Camella and Paul Martinez have been sentenced. This case was investigated by the HUD Office of Inspector General and the Albuquerque Division of the FBI, and is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Shana B. Long.
corruption SAN JUAN, PR—On August 5, 2013, Police of Puerto Rico Officers FELIX RAMIREZ-RIVERA, JOSE ALBERTO NATAL GONZALEZ, and ANGEL MANUEL QUINONES MATOS as well as civilians FERNANDO REYES-ROJAS and FABIO TRINIDAD-MARTINEZ were taken into custody by the FBI. These individuals were charged with aiding and abetting each other in the assault and robbery of a person in the possession of $25,000 in government funds, and the use and carrying of a firearm during and in relation to the assault and robbery. The federal complaint states that on the afternoon of August 5, 2013, special agents of the FBI were conducting physical surveillance in Bayamon, Puerto Rico. The FBI had planned a controlled drug purchase from TRINIDAD, who had offered to sell a kilogram of cocaine to an FBI confidential informant (CI). After TRINIDAD agreed to sell the kilogram of cocaine, REYES alerted the three officers that the transaction was going to occur, and an agreement to steal the purchase money from the CI was made amongst the five charged defendants. As TRINIDAD approached the CI, RAMIREZ, QUINONEZ, and NATAL arrived in a marked Police of Puerto Rico Chevy TrailBlazer. Agents observed the three officers get out of the vehicle, and TRINIDAD began to flee the area on foot, dropping a small package. As TRINIDAD fled on foot, NATAL drew a handgun and chased for a short distance, placing the lives of CI, TRINIDAD, and others in danger. Shortly after, NATAL returned to the area. RAMIREZ picked up the package dropped by TRINIDAD. RAMIREZ and QUINONES interacted with the CI and searched the vehicle driven by CI. RAMIREZ, QUINONES, and NATAL departed with the kilogram sized package and $25,000 which had been given to the CI by agents from the FBI funds in order to purchase the kilogram of cocaine from TRINIDAD. If convicted, the defendants face up to a maximum of life in prison. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Timothy Henwood, and is being investigated by the FBI. The public is reminded that a criminal complaint contains only charges and is not evidence of guilt. A defendant is presumed to be innocent until and unless proven guilty.
corruption DALLAS—On Friday, August 2, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in New Orleans, Louisiana issued a 32-page published opinion affirming the convictions and sentences of the last four remaining defendants in the Dallas City Hall Corruption case, including former Dallas Mayor Pro Tem Donald Hill, his wife Sheila Farrington Hill, former City Plan & Zoning Commissioner D’Angelo Lee and Darren Reagan, head of the Black State Employees Association. In so doing, the Court emphasized that the government’s evidence was “strong” and that it “amply” supported the convictions and sentences in a case “involving substantial and wide-ranging public corruption charges related to government-subsidized [housing] development projects in Dallas.” The announcement was made today by U.S. Attorney Sarah R. Saldaña of the Northern District of Texas. “The successful resolution of this case would not have been possible without the tireless efforts of many dedicated public servants,” said U.S. Attorney Saldaña. “I commend their efforts.” The opinion was released three months after the three-judge panel heard oral argument in the case. The appellate briefing spanned nearly 1,000 pages and included close to 20 issues. The opinion was the third released by the Fifth Circuit in this corruption prosecution. The first opinion was released in July 2012 and affirmed the conspiracy conviction of codefendant Jibreel Rashad, who was tried separately in January and February 2010. The second was released in October 2012 and affirmed the bribery and money laundering convictions of contractor Ronald Slovacek, who was tried in November 2010. The appeal involving the final defendants, including Hill, Lee, and two others, followed a three-month trial that began in June 2009. Hill, who testified in the case, and Farrington and Lee were convicted of counts related to bribery, extortion and money laundering. Reagan was convicted of counts related to extortion. Hill received a sentence of 18 years, Lee and Reagan received 14 years, and Farrington Hill received nine years. All of the defendants appealed their convictions, and two, Reagan and Lee, appealed their sentences. In affirming the bribery and money laundering convictions, the Court reasoned that “in order to obtain Hill’s political support for his housing developments, [housing developer Brian] Potashnik agreed to hire Farrington as a community consultant … [and] regularly paid Farrington … despite Farrington never having done any work for him. Hill and Lee also demanded that Potashnik involve various non-profit organizations in his developments, and these organizations then remitted part of their fees to Farrington…. Farrington used money from [her business] account to buy cars for Hill and Lee and made cash withdrawals from the account for Lee. In return for Potashnik’s cooperation, Hill, among other acts, pushed the City Council to approve a financing deal for one of Potashnik’s housing developments.” In affirming the extortion convictions, the court noted that “[w]hile these machinations with respect to Potashnik were ongoing, the appellants were also involved in illegal schemes related to Potashnik’s rival, Fisher,” which culminated in “[t]he FBI … photograph[ing] Reagan giving Hill an envelope containing $10,000” after Reagan received one of the extortion payments from Fisher. Assistant U.S. Attorneys Leigha Simonton and Wes Hendrix were the lead attorneys in the appeals. The district court cases were investigated by the FBI and Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation. They were prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Chad Meacham and Marcus Busch and Ms. Saldaña, before becoming U.S. Attorney.
corruption TRENTON, NJ—A Hudson County, New Jersey man today admitted his role in bid-rigging in order to fraudulently obtain U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development grant funds from the City of Bayonne, New Jersey, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Leo Viguie, 38, of Bayonne, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Peter G. Sheridan in Trenton federal court to an information charging him with one count of theft of government funds totaling $40,000. According to documents filed in this case and statements made in court: Viguie was the owner of L.V. Renovations LLC, a general contracting company in Bayonne. The City of Bayonne Department of Community Development (CBDCD) was a government agency that received funds from the U.S. Department Housing and Urban Development under a federal program that provided grants of up to $20,000 to low income families to rehabilitate their homes and to repair conditions that were considered to affect their health and safety, and their homes’ accessibility, energy efficiency or code compliance. In September 2011, Viguie, as the owner of L.V. Renovations, LLC, caused another contractor to provide Viguie with a bid that was higher than his own for the purpose of obtaining HUD grant funds from the City of Bayonne. Viguie then submitted the other contractor’s bid along with his own to the CBDCD. As a result of Viguie colluding with the other contractor and submitting the two bids, Viguie wrongfully obtained $20,000 in HUD grant funds from the CBDCD on September 29, 2011. In December 2011, Viguie supplied another contractor with a bid on behalf of L.V. Renovations that was higher than the other contractor’s bid for the purpose of obtaining HUD grant funds from the City of Bayonne. The other contractor then submitted the two bids to the CBDCD. As a result of Viguie colluding with the other contractor who then submitted the two bids, the other contractor wrongfully obtained $20,000 in HUD grant funds from the CBDCD on December 28, 2011. The theft of government funds charge carries a maximum potential penalty of 10 years in prison and a maximum fine of $250,000. Sentencing is currently scheduled for December 4, 2013. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent In Charge Aaron T. Ford in Newark; special agents of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Cary Rubenstein; and special agents of the IRS, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Shantelle P. Kitchen in Newark, with the continuing investigation leading to the guilty plea. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Zahid N. Quraishi of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division and Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven G. Sanders of the Newark office.
corruption ALBANY, NY—In an opinion issued today in United States v. Joseph L. Bruno, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed Chief U.S. District Judge Gary L. Sharpe’s decision to deny Bruno’s motion to dismiss the superseding indictment on double jeopardy grounds. The opinion clears the path for trial, and Chief Judge Sharpe has scheduled a status hearing on August 13 at 3:00 p.m. In December 2009, a jury convicted the former majority leader of the New York State Senate of two counts of honest services fraud. Then, in 2010, the United States Supreme Court decided United States v. Skilling, holding that the honest services statute criminalizes only fraudulent schemes involving bribes or kickbacks. In light of Skilling, Bruno’s conviction was vacated, but on November 16, 2011, the Court of Appeals held that the Double Jeopardy Clause of the Fifth Amendment did not bar retrial of Bruno on an indictment that charged honest services fraud based a bribery or kickback theory because the evidence presented at trial was sufficient for a reasonable jury to find that Bruno accepted “payments that were intended to and did influence his conduct as a public official,” and that “Bruno’s actions deprived New York citizens of his honest services as a New York senator under the standard announced in Skilling.” After a federal grand jury returned a superseding indictment on May 3, 2013, Bruno filed a motion to dismiss the indictment on double jeopardy grounds. Chief Judge Sharpe denied the motion, and Bruno filed the interlocutory appeal denied today. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Elizabeth C. Coombe and William C. Pericak. United States Attorney Richard S. Hartunian announced that, consistent with the decision by the Court of Appeals, the U.S. Attorney’s Office will seek resolution of this case by trial as soon as possible.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, and Michael B. Steinbach, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office, announce that four individuals have been charged in two separate complaints involving public corruption allegations. The first complaint charges Manuel L. Maroño, 41, the mayor of Sweetwater, and two lobbyists, Jorge L. Forte, 41, and Richard F. Candia, 49, all of Miami, for their alleged participation in a kickback and bribery scheme (the Maroño complaint) in connection with purported federal grants for the city of Sweetwater. The second complaint charges Michael A. Pizzi, 51, the mayor of Miami Lakes and town attorney for the town of Medley, and Richard F. Candia, in a separate kickback and bribery scheme in connection with purported federal grants for both Miami Lakes and Medley (the Pizzi complaint). Both complaints charge the defendants with conspiracy to commit extortion under color of official right, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1951(a). U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer stated, “Our democracy suffers when, as in these cases, elected officials use their power and political influence for personal gain instead of for the public good. Public corruption, at any level of government, corrodes and undermines the public’s confidence in our system of government. We are committed to stopping this corrosion and to help restore transparency to local government.” “For the public to have confidence in their government, they must be certain that their elected officials will not use their position for personal gain,” said Michael B. Steinbach, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Miami. “We encourage anyone who may have information about corruption to come forward and report it. This information is critical to our work. The South Florida community can be assured that public corruption will remain a top priority for the FBI.” The defendants made their initial appearances in federal court today at 1:30 p.m. before U.S. Magistrate Judge Andrea Simonton. If convicted, the defendants face a maximum statutory penalty of up to 20 years in prison. Investigation Background The investigation began in approximately June 2011, when Candia began dealing with an FBI confidential source and two undercover FBI agents posing as the owners of a Chicago-based grant administration business. During meetings, the undercover agents represented to Candia that, with the aid of corrupt local public officials, they could obtain federal grant moneys, which they would then keep and distribute among themselves. After listening to the undercover agents’ proposal, Candia identified Maroño and Pizzi as potential participants in the scheme. The Sweetwater Deal—Manuel Maroño According to the Maroño complaint affidavit, after identifying Maroño as a potential participant in the proposed scheme, Candia introduced Maroño to the undercover agents. Maroño caused the passage of a resolution in Sweetwater that authorized the undercover agents’ company to apply for federal grant moneys on behalf of the city of Sweetwater. After the resolution was passed, Maroño and Forte personally met and negotiated with the undercover agents and accepted a series of cash payments in exchange for Maroño’s official action in support of the grant scheme. During these negotiations and meetings, Forte acted as the front man for Maroño. To further the scheme and avoid detection, Maroño also participated in what he believed to be audit telephone calls from a federal grant auditor to confirm the grantee’s performance on the grant. During two separate audit calls, both of which were recorded, Maroño lied to and misled the auditor, who was in fact an undercover FBI agent, about the actual use of the grant money and the grantee’s performance. For their actions, Maroño and Forte received $40,000 and Candia received at least $5,000 in kickbacks in connection with the Sweetwater deal. Lastly, Maroño, Forte, and Candia received additional payments for their assistance in identifying other public officials whom they claimed might also be interested in participating in similar grant schemes in their cities. To this end, Maroño, Forte, and Candia used Maroño’s position as President of the Florida League of Cities to introduce the scheme to other officials. Maroño and Forte received an additional $20,000 in cash for these introductions, but no other public officials ultimately participated in the scheme. The Miami Lakes/Medley Deals—Michael Pizzi The second complaint charges Michael Pizzi and Candia with engaging in a similar grant scheme in Miami Lakes and Medley. As more fully explained in the affidavit filed in support of the Pizzi complaint, Candia introduced Pizzi to the undercover FBI agents to help implement the grant scheme in Medley, where Pizzi was the town attorney. After a series of meetings with Candia and the undercover agents, Pizzi initially agreed to participate in the scheme in exchange for $750 in campaign contributions, which he received in three separate checks delivered to his office by the FBI confidential source. Thereafter, to aid in the grant scheme’s success, Pizzi backdated a document that endorsed the undercover agents’ company. Pizzi also handled what he believed to be an audit telephone call from a federal grant auditor to confirm the grantee’s performance on the grant. During that call, which was recorded, Pizzi lied to and misled the auditor, who was in fact an undercover FBI agent, about the actual use of the grant money and the grantee’s performance. In return for Pizzi’s help in Medley, Pizzi received a $1,000 cash kickback and other things of value. Later, with the intent of expanding the grant scheme to Miami Lakes, Pizzi worked to get a resolution passed in Miami Lakes that would authorize the undercover FBI agents’ company to seek additional grant funds for the city of Miami Lakes. In exchange for his work in Miami Lakes, Pizzi received additional $2,000 and $3,000 cash pay-offs. These cases were investigated by the FBI Miami Area Public Corruption Task Force with assistance from the City of Miami Police Department, Hialeah Police Department, Miami Beach Police Department, Miami Dade Police Department, and Customs and Border Protection-Internal Affairs. The cases are being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Jared E. Dwyer. A complaint is only an accusation and a defendant is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty.
corruption Preet Bharara, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, and George Venizelos, the Assistant Director in Charge of the New York Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), announced today the arrest of KRISTIN DAVIS, a candidate for New York City comptroller, on charges of selling prescription pills containing controlled substances, including oxycodone, for cash. DAVIS was arrested yesterday in Manhattan and is expected to be presented this afternoon in Manhattan federal court before U.S. Magistrate Judge Sarah Netburn. Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said: “As alleged, Kristin Davis sold dangerous and highly addictive prescription pills to a known drug dealer on repeated occasions in exchange for cash. Prescription drug abuse is the fastest-growing drug problem in this country, resulting in more overdose deaths than heroin and cocaine combined, and this office has a zero-tolerance policy toward anyone who helps to spread this plague at any level.” FBI Assistant Director in Charge George Venizelos said: “As alleged, Kristin Davis sold prescription pills not once, but rather four different times in four months to an FBI cooperating witness. This type of criminal activity is illegal for citizens, and is especially unbecoming for a person seeking public office in the City of New York. The FBI and our partners in law enforcement remain committed to investigate and bring to justice those individuals who illegally distribute prescription medicines for their own financial gain.” According to the complaint unsealed today in Manhattan federal court and other information in the public record: On three separate occasions from January 2013 to March 2013, DAVIS sold hundreds of prescription pills containing amphetamine, alprazolam, zolpidem, and carisoprodol to a person she knew from prior purchases and sales to be a drug dealer. Unbeknownst to DAVIS, the person was a cooperating witness (CW) with the FBI and equipped with a recording device. During these sales, DAVIS was recorded saying that the pills she was selling were Ambien, Soma, and Xanax. On a fourth occasion, in April 2013, DAVIS arranged for another individual to sell approximately 180 oxycodone pills to the CW. Oxycodone, a Schedule II controlled substance, is a powerful painkiller with a high potential for addiction and abuse, and the active ingredient in OxyContin and Percocet. There is an illegal market for oxycodone, which is often used as a substitute for, or adjunct to, other illegal drugs, such as heroin. Amphetamine, a Schedule II controlled substance, is a psycho-stimulant, and the active ingredient in Adderall. There is an illegal market for amphetamine, often referred to as speed, as a substitute for, or adjunct to, other illegal drugs, such as methamphetamine and cocaine. Alprazolam, a Schedule IV controlled substance, is a psychoactive drug, and the active ingredient in Xanax. There is an illegal market for alprazolam, which is often used as a substitute for, or adjunct to, other illegal drugs, such as LSD, heroin or opiates. Zolpidem, a Schedule IV controlled substance, is a sedative/hypnotic drug, and the active ingredient in Ambien. There is an illegal market for zolpidem, which is often used as a substitute for, or adjunct to, other illegal drugs, such as amphetamine, methamphetamine, cocaine, and MDMA (commonly known as ecstasy). Carisoprodol, a Schedule IV controlled substance, is a skeletal muscle relaxant, and the active ingredient in Soma. There is an illegal market for carisoprodol, which is often used in conjunction with painkillers and so-called “date rape” drugs. *** DAVIS, 38, of New York, New York, is charged with four counts of distributing and possessing with intent to distribute a controlled substance. Each count carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison. DAVIS is the sixth person arrested as part of an ongoing investigation conducted by the FBI, the United States Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General (HHS-OIG), the New York City Police Department (NYPD), and the U.S. Attorney’s Office into the unlawful distribution of prescription drugs containing controlled substances in and around New York City. Thomas Rock was arrested on July 10, 2013, and charged with distributing and conspiring to distribute oxycodone and alprazolam. Eugene Kurochkin was arrested on July 11, 2013 for distribution of oxycodone, alprazolam, amphetamine, and zolpidem. Raoul Goldberger and Rebecca Temen were arrested on July 29, 2013, and charged with distributing and conspiring to distribute amphetamine, oxycodone, and vicodin. Erik Pichardo, who is referred to as Individual-1 in the complaint against DAVIS, has been charged with distributing oxycodone and is at large. In addition, the investigation also led to the arrest of Mark Decker on July 1, 2013, on charges of distributing cocaine and ecstasy. Mr. Bharara praised the investigative work of the FBI. Mr. Bharara also thanked HHS-OIG and NYPD for their assistance in the ongoing investigation. The case is being handled by the office’s Narcotics Unit. Assistant United States Attorneys Kristy J. Greenberg, Daniel C. Richenthal, and Edward A. Imperatore are in charge of the prosecution. The charges contained in the complaint, and the other charges brought in connection with the ongoing investigation, are merely accusations, and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. Follow the FBI’s New York Office on Twitter. Sign up for our e-mail alerts to receive the latest information from the FBI’s New York Office on breaking news, arrests, and fugitives.
corruption BROWNSVILLE, TX—Former Texas representative Jose Santiago “Jim” Solis has been ordered to prison following his conviction of aiding and abetting the extortion by former state district judge Abel Corral Limas, United States Attorney Kenneth Magidson announced today. Solis pleaded guilty April 29, 2011. Today, U.S. District Judge Andrew Hanen, who accepted the guilty plea, handed Solis a total sentence of 47 months in federal prison. At the hearing, additional testimony was presented, including the impact suffered by victims as well as Solis’ family and friends. Judge Hanen took into consideration the testimony of witnesses before pronouncing the sentence and stated that Solis “betrayed the public trust and violated the oath to uphold the laws.” Solis was further ordered to pay restitution of approximately $119,000 and will serve a term of three years of supervised release following completion of the prison sentence. An additional amount of $250,000 was ordered forfeited as proceeds derived from the offense. Solis, 47, a life-long resident of Harlingen, has practiced law in south Texas for many years, focusing primarily in personal injury cases. Solis served as a member of the Texas House of Representatives, representing District 38, for seven terms—retiring from the Legislature in 2007. At the time of his guilty plea, Solis admitted his part in former Judge Limas’ use of the office of judge of the 404th District Court as a criminal enterprise to enrich himself and others, including Solis, through extortion. Limas accepted money and other consideration from attorneys in civil cases pending in his court, including Solis, in return for favorable pre-trial rulings in certain cases, including a case involving a helicopter crash at South Padre Island in February 2008. Solis specifically admitted to paying Limas $8,000 in May 2008, a payment they described as eight “golf balls,” for favorable rulings. Evidence also showed Solis participated in a series of meetings with attorney Marc Garrett Rosenthal and Limas in the summer of 2008 during which they planned and negotiated the terms of Limas’ employment as an “of counsel” attorney with the firm. During those meetings, Rosenthal promised Limas an advance of at least $100,000 as well as a percentage of attorneys’ fees earned in the helicopter crash case. Limas’ employment arrangements were confirmed in calls on August 28, 2008, between Limas and his wife and son. The intercepted calls indicated Limas was expecting to be “cut in” on 10 percent of the settlement/judgment of the helicopter crash case pending in his court and the $100,000 advance. On December 31, 2008, Limas received a check for $50,000 payable from the Rosenthal & Watson Law Firm. On January 2, 2009, Limas received a check for $50,000 from Solis. In October 2009, the helicopter case settled for approximately $14 million and Limas received approximately $85,000 from the Rosenthal & Watson Law Firm approximately two months later. To date, a total of eight defendants have entered guilty pleas to related violations in the FBI’s four-year public corruption investigation, including Limas, former state district judge of the 404th District Court; local attorney Jose “Joe” Valle; former Cameron County District Attorney’s Office investigator Jaime Munivez; Jose Manuel “Meme” Longoria; and Armando Pena and his wife, Karina. Three others—attorneys Ray Roman Marchan, Marc Garrett Rosenthal, and former Cameron County District Attorney Armando Villalobos were found guilty of public corruption-related charges involving their association with Limas after separate jury trials. Marchan was previously sentenced to 42 months’ imprisonment which was vacated upon his death. Rosenthal and Villalobos will be sentenced September 23 and October 15, 2013, respectively. Solis was permitted to remain on bond and voluntarily surrender to a U.S. Bureau of Prisons facility to be determined in the near future. The investigation has been conducted by the FBI with the assistance of the Drug Enforcement Administration and Brownsville Police Department. Southern District of Texas Assistant United States Attorneys (AUSA) Michael Wynne and Oscar Ponce are prosecuting this case. The cases against Villalobos, Rosenthal and Lucio are being prosecuted under the direction of the Western District of Texas by AUSAs Wynne and Greg Surovic.
corruption CHARLESTON, WV—U.S. Attorney Booth Goodwin today charged Clay County Sheriff Miles J. “Mike” Slack with illegal wiretapping, a federal felony that can carry up to five years in prison. In a criminal case filed this afternoon, Goodwin charged Sheriff Slack with surreptitiously installing a keystroke logger on a computer belonging to the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia. According to court documents, the compromised computer was a government computer assigned to Slack’s then-wife, identified as Victim L.S., who works in the office of a Clay County magistrate. Computers in the offices of circuit judges and magistrates throughout West Virginia are owned and maintained by the state’s supreme court and are connected to a central supreme court computer network. Sheriff Slack installed the hidden device in late April of this year, said Goodwin and Steven Ruby, the assistant federal prosecutor who signed today’s charge, and it remained in place for over two weeks, intercepting messages and data transmitted from L.S.’s supreme court computer. Keystroke logging devices can be purchased from a number of Internet-based sellers. The devices, usually one to two inches long, are attached to a computer’s keyboard cable. Once installed, they can intercept everything typed on the keyboard, including e-mail and information transmitted to Internet sites. Because the devices are unobtrusive and normally hidden behind the computer targeted for surveillance, they can go undetected for long periods of time. Though small in size, some keystroke loggers can store two gigabytes of information, enough to record more than a billion keystrokes. Slack served as a Clay County deputy sheriff for around 16 years. In early 2012, while acting as chief deputy for the Clay County Sheriff’s Department, Slack announced he was running for sheriff. Then-Sheriff Randy Holcomb, however, quickly demoted Slack to the rank of sergeant, a move that threatened Slack’s election bid. Under West Virginia civil service laws, deputy sheriffs other than the chief deputy may not run for public office. In order to remain in the race, Slack resigned from the department and became chief of police for Clay, West Virginia, the county seat of Clay County. In the May 2012 primary election, Slack soundly defeated two other candidates for the Democratic nomination for sheriff, receiving nearly 78 percent of the vote. He ran unopposed in the November 2012 general election and took office January 1, 2013. Slack’s first projects as sheriff included expanding evening patrols and seeking funding for a new home confinement officer. Slack was charged in a court filing known as an information, which ordinarily indicates that a defendant is cooperating with prosecutors. No hearing date has been set. The case is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the West Virginia State Police, with assistance from the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia. The prosecution is being handled by Steven Ruby and Haley Bunn, prosecutors in Goodwin’s office. Note: The charge contained in an information is merely an accusation, and the defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption NEWARK, NJ—A Jersey City, New Jersey police officer appeared in Newark federal court this afternoon to face charges that he stole more than 600,000 cigarettes from a trailer and conspired to rob $20,000 from a drug courier, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Mario Rodriguez, 39, of Jersey City, is charged by complaint with one count of cargo theft and one count of conspiracy to commit Hobbs Act extortion under color of official right. He appeared this afternoon before U.S. Magistrate Judge Cathy L. Waldor in Newark federal court and was released on a $250,000 bond and confined to home incarceration with electronic monitoring. The complaint also charges Anthony Roman, 48, also of Jersey City, in the conspiracy. Roman was arrested at home August 2, 2013, and appeared in court the same day. He was released on a $250,000 bond. According to the complaint: The Cargo Theft On July 3, 2013, Rodriguez and an individual working for the FBI as a confidential informant (CI) drove to a warehouse in Secaucus, New Jersey to break into a trailer and steal cigarettes they planned to sell to the CI’s associate for $5,000. Law enforcement agents had parked the trailer there and established surveillance of the area. Rodriguez used bolt cutters to cut the lock off of the trailer, and he and the CI loaded 50 cases containing approximately 600,000 cigarettes and six televisions from the trailer into their vehicle. As they drove the stolen items to a parking lot in Staten Island, New York, Rodriguez made several phone calls seeking buyers for the TVs. The pair met the CI’s associate—actually an undercover officer—in the parking lot to get the $5,000 payment for the cigarettes. Rodriguez kept $3,000 of the cash and three of the TVs. The Extortion On July 10, 2013, Rodriguez and the CI met in New Jersey with undercover law enforcement agents and discussed the possibility of robbing a drug courier—actually another undercover officer. Later that month, the group met again in Staten Island to discuss the plan. The undercover officers told Rodriguez the courier would be delivering cocaine to them that day in a Jersey City mall parking lot in exchange for a $20,000 payment, after which Rodriguez would steal the money. Rodriguez called Roman to help him with the robbery. Rodriguez and Roman drove a Toyota RAV-4 truck to the location on July 24, 2013, where law enforcement agents had established surveillance and staged the car containing $20,000 cash in a plastic bag. Rodriguez and Roman robbed the woman they thought was a drug courier of the money after identifying themselves as law enforcement officers—which Roman is not—and pretending to arrest the CI. Later that day, Rodriguez, the CI and the undercover met in a hotel room at a Pennsylvania casino to split the cash. The cargo theft and conspiracy to commit Hobbs Act Extortion charges carry a maximum potential penalty of 10 and 20 years in prison, respectively. Both counts also carry a maximum fine of $250,000. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford in Newark; the Special Investigations Unit of the Jersey City Police Department, under the direction of Acting Chief Joseph Connors; the Hudson County Prosecutor’s Office, under the direction of Acting Prosecutor Gaetano T. Gregory; and criminal investigators of the U.S. Attorney’s Office with the investigation leading to the charges. He also thanked the Bayonne Police Department, Waterfront Commission of New York Harbor, IRS-Criminal Investigation, U.S. Department of Labor Office of Inspector General, and the New Jersey State Commission of Investigation for their significant contributions to the investigation. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan W. Romankow of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Organized Crime/Gangs Unit in Newark. The charges and allegations contained in the complaint are merely accusations, and the defendants are considered innocent unless and until proven guilty. Defense counsel: Mario Rodriguez: Brian J. Neary Esq., Hackensack, N.J. Anthony Roman: Daniel Welsh Esq., Jersey City, N.J.
corruption Philadelphia Division Special Agent in Charge Edward J. Hanko announced today the arrest of Robert F. Evans, Jr. Evans, a Hughestown Borough Police officer, was arrested without incident this morning and has been charged in the Middle District of Pennsylvania via Complaint and Warrant with the distribution of oxycodone in violation of Title 21, United States code, Section 841. Evans made an initial appearance in United States District Court, Middle District of Pennsylvania, Scranton, at 1:00 p.m. today. This investigation was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Philadelphia Division, Scranton Resident Agency; the Pennsylvania State Police; the Pennsylvania Attorney General Office, Bureau of Narcotics Investigation; and the Luzerne County District Attorney’s Office.
corruption HAMMOND, IN—The United States Attorney’s Office announced the following activity in federal court: Gabriel Jalomos, 25, of Chicago, Illinois, a defendant in the case U.S. v Vargas et al., was sentenced by Senior District Judge Rudy Lozano to 240 months’ imprisonment and five years of supervised release after pleading guilty to conspiracy to participate in racketeering activity and, in a separate matter, conspiracy to possess with the intent to distribute and distribution of cocaine and marijuana and the robbery of a 7-Eleven store in Hammond, Indiana. According to the indictment charging racketeering, Jalomos is a member of the Latin Kings, which is a nationwide gang that originated in Chicago and has branched out throughout the United States, including to Texas. The indictment also alleged that the Latin Kings gang was responsible for at least 19 murders in the Chicago/Northwest Indiana area and Big Spring, Texas. These charges were filed as a result of an investigation by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives; the Drug Enforcement Administration; Federal Bureau of Investigation; the U.S. Immigration and Custom Office of Homeland Security Investigations; the National Gang Targeting, Enforcement & Coordination Center; the National Gang Intelligence Center; the Chicago Police Department; the East Chicago Police Department; the Griffith Police Department; the Hammond Police Department; the Highland Police Department; and the Houston Police Department. The investigation of the Chicago Police Department officers was conducted by Chicago City Public Corruption Task Force, a Chicago Police Department- Internal Affairs and FBI-Chicago law enforcement initiative. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney David J. Nozick, and Joseph A. Cooley, Trial Attorney, United States Department of Justice-Organized Crime and Gang Unit.
corruption WASHINGTON—Two former officers with the Police of Puerto Rico and another individual were sentenced to prison late yesterday for their roles in providing security for drug transactions. Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney Rosa E. Rodriguez-Velez of the District of Puerto Rico, and Special Agent in Charge Carlos Cases of the FBI’s San Juan Field Office made the announcement after sentencing by U.S. District Judge Carmen Consuelo Cerezo in the District of Puerto Rico. Former Police of Puerto Rico officers Daviel Salinas-Acevedo, 29, of Bayamon, Puerto Rico, and Miguel Santiago-Cordero, 30, of Lares, Puerto Rico, were each sentenced on July 30, 2013, to serve 181 months in prison. In addition, Wendell Rivera-Ruperto, 38, of Las Marias, Puerto Rico, was also sentenced yesterday to 420 months in prison. On January 10, 2013, Salinas-Acevedo and Santiago-Cordero were each convicted at trial of one count of conspiring to possess with intent to distribute more than five kilograms of cocaine and one count of possessing a firearm in furtherance of a drug transaction. Rivera-Ruperto was convicted of one count of conspiring to possess with intent to distribute more than five kilograms of cocaine, attempting to possess with the intent to distribute more than five kilograms of cocaine and possessing a firearm in furtherance of a drug transaction. Rivera-Ruperto had been convicted previously of 15 other counts arising from his participation in other, related drug transactions. The case against the three defendants arose from the FBI’s undercover operation known as Operation Guard Shack. To date, 131 defendants have pleaded guilty or been convicted at trial, and 123 defendants have been sentenced as a result of the operation. According to the evidence presented in court, Salinas-Acevedo, Santiago-Cordero, and Rivera-Ruperto each provided security for what they believed were illegal cocaine deals that occurred on March 24, April 9, and July 8, 2010, respectively. In fact, each purported drug transaction was one of dozens of simulated transactions conducted as part of the undercover FBI operation. The three men performed armed security for the multi-kilogram cocaine deals by frisking the buyer, standing guard as the kilos were counted, and inspecting and escorting the buyer in and out of the transaction. In return for the security they provided, Salinas-Acevedo, Santiago-Cordero, and Rivera-Ruperto each received a cash payment of $2,000. The money was never returned by any of the defendants, and none of the defendants ever reported the transactions. The case was investigated by the FBI. The Puerto Rico Department of Justice also provided assistance in this case. The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Anthony J. Phillips and Edward J. Loya, Jr. of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section. The U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Puerto Rico participated in the investigation and prosecution of this case.
corruption WASHINGTON—April Johnston, a former corrections officer, was sentenced today to three months in jail and six months of home detention for accepting money to bring contraband into a District of Columbia correctional facility, announced U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen, Jr. and Valerie Parlave, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office. Johnston, 42, pled guilty to a charge of bribery in March 2013 in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. She was sentenced by the Honorable Robert L. Wilkins. Upon completion of her jail time, she will be placed on two years of probation. Judge Wilkins also ordered her to perform 100 hours of community service. Johnston also is subject to a forfeiture judgment of $2,500. According to the government’s evidence, at the time of the offense, Johnston was employed as a corrections officer for the District of Columbia Jail and had met with individuals inside the jail to discuss the possibility of smuggling contraband to an inmate. In September 2011, she made a telephone call to a person whom she believed was an associate of an inmate. In fact, however, that person was an undercover agent with the FBI. Johnston met the undercover agent on September 28, 2011, at her residence in Maryland. During the meeting, the undercover agent paid her $1,000 and gave her a computer thumb drive to smuggle into the jail. She agreed to use her position as a corrections officer to smuggle the item to the inmate in return for the money, and she later did so. On October 5, 2011, Johnston again met the undercover agent at her residence. This time, the agent paid her $1,500 along with a thumb drive and mobile USB flash drive to smuggle into the jail. Once again, she smuggled the items into the jail in return for the money. Johnston is among three corrections employees convicted of bribery since December 2012. In December 2012, Daishawn Goodson, a former corrections officer employed by the Corrections Corporation of America (CCA), pled guilty to taking money to smuggle contraband into the District’s Correctional Treatment Facility. She was sentenced to eight months of home detention. In March 2013, Jeremiah Moorman, a former corrections officer, was found guilty of bribery and first-degree theft charges for accepting money under the promise of bringing contraband into the District of Columbia Jail. He was sentenced to two years of probation. In announcing the sentence, U.S. Attorney Machen and Assistant Director in Charge Parlave commended the work of the agents who investigated the case from the FBI’s Washington Field Office. They also expressed appreciation for the assistance provided by the District of Columbia Department of Corrections Office of Investigative Services. Finally, they acknowledged the efforts of those who worked on the case from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, including Paralegal Specialist Nicole Wattelet and Assistant U.S. Attorney Seth B Waxman, who prosecuted the case.
corruption TEXARKANNA, AR—Conner Eldridge, United States Attorney for the Western District of Arkansas, announced that former Garland County Sheriff’s Deputy Neil Parliament, 39, pleaded guilty in federal court to a one-count information for arranging for a minor to travel to Hot Springs, Arkansas, to engage in prostitution. At the time of the offense, Parliment was a marine patrol officer with the Garland County Sheriff’s Office. The Honorable Susan O. Hickey accepted the plea in United States District Court in Texarkana. United States Attorney Eldridge commented, “Mr. Parliament abused his position of public trust to engage in illegal activities involving prostitution. This activity is unacceptable, and we will continue to bring to justice those individuals who seek to use similar positions to perpetrate crimes.” According to court documents, in early February 2013, the Little Rock Police Department was contacted by a minor female who admitted to police that she had been engaging in prostitution. The individual resided in Memphis, Tennessee, and admitted to traveling into Arkansas to meet clients. She told officers that one client, Mr. Parliament, was a police officer in Hot Springs, Arkansas, and showed officers numerous text messages regarding her traveling to Hot Springs to engage in prostitution. She further admitted to officers that she first made contact with Parliament in January 2013. At that time, Parliament made arrangements for her to travel from Memphis to Hot Springs, including arranging for her to stay in a local hotel room. When she arrived in Hot Springs, she and Parliament engaged in sexual activity in the hotel room in exchange for payment. Parliament then arranged for her to meet with other individuals, with whom she also engaged in sexual activity in exchange for payment. Parliament was originally arrested on a federal warrant on June 13, 2013. At sentencing, the defendant’s sentence will be determined by the court after review of factors unique to this case, including the defendant’s prior criminal record (if any), the defendant’s role in the offense, and the characteristics of the violations. The sentence will not exceed the statutory maximum, and in most cases it will be less than the maximum. In this case, Parliament faces the maximum penalties of 20 years in prison and a fine of $250,000. This case was investigated by the FBI Denied Innocence Task Force and the Little Rock Police Department. Assistant United States Attorney Dustin Roberts is prosecuting the case for the United States.
corruption Kenneth D. Lee, 52, of Nashville, Tennessee, pleaded guilty yesterday in U.S. District Court, to honest services mail fraud, announced David Rivera, Acting U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Tennessee. Lee was indicted by a federal grand jury on March 1, 2012, and charged with extortion and mail fraud arising from his solicitation of payment from a woman who did not have a driver’s license in exchange for not arresting her. “This case is about much more than a $200 fraud. It's about dishonest dealings by a police officer sworn to uphold the law and to serve and protect the public,” said David Rivera, Acting U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Tennessee. The public should not allow the crimes of this single police officer to tarnish or otherwise undermine their confidence in the vast majority of law enforcement officers who serve with integrity and keep our communities safe. Those few public servants who choose to abandon their oath should be reminded that the United States Attorney's Office will prosecute them to the fullest extent of the law. Lee, a former Nolensville police officer, admitted during the plea hearing that on August 17, 2011, that he told a woman who did not have a driver’s license that he would not arrest her if she paid him $200. Lee also acknowledged that the woman mailed him three separate money orders, totaling $200. “Our community expects and deserves law enforcement that protects and serves and does not use public service as a shortcut to self-enrichment,” said A. Todd McCall, Special Agent in Charge of the Memphis Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. “The FBI and our partners will continue to work to uphold this expectation and today’s plea represents the culmination of hard work to end a corruption and abuse of power that tarnished the thousands of honest, hard-working law enforcement officers, who serve with integrity, and risk their lives every day to keep us safe.” After accepting Lee’s plea, Chief U.S. District Judge William J. Haynes scheduled a sentencing hearing for October 18, 2013. Under the plea agreement, Lee could be sentenced to up to a year and a day in prison. This case was investigated by the FBI and the United States Postal Inspection Service and is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Scarlett Singleton and Jimmie Lynn Ramsaur.
corruption WASHINGTON—Thomas W. Gore, the former assistant treasurer for a District of Columbia mayoral campaign, was sentenced today to six months in prison for obstruction of justice and other charges stemming from his activities involving the 2010 election. The sentence was announced by U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen, Jr. and Valerie Parlave, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office. Gore, 58, of Washington, D.C., pled guilty in May 2012 in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia to one count of obstructing justice by destroying records in a federal investigation and three counts of making a campaign contribution in the name of another person. He was sentenced by the Honorable Colleen Kollar-Kotelly. Upon completion of his prison time, Gore will be placed on three years of supervised release. Judge Kollar-Kotelly ordered that 180 days of that period must be spent on home detention. In addition, Gore must perform 200 hours of community service. Judge Kollar-Kotelly also barred Gore from participating in political campaigns without prior approval of the court. Gore is among three people, all associated with the same mayoral campaign, to plead guilty to charges in a continuing investigation of campaign activities during the election. Howard L. Brooks, 65, a member of the campaign’s finance and treasury teams, was sentenced last year to 24 months of probation and ordered to perform 200 hours of community service for making a false statement to the FBI. Business owner Eugenia C. Harris, 76, pled guilty in July 2012 to one count of conspiring to violate federal campaign finance law and to obstruct justice; one count of engaging in fraud and making false statements; and one count of conspiring to violate District of Columbia campaign law. Harris is awaiting sentencing. According to a statement of offense signed by the government as well as the defendant, Gore worked for one of the candidates challenging incumbent Mayor Adrian M. Fenty in the 2010 campaign. The guilty plea involves activities tied to his work on the campaign of that candidate, who is identified in the court documents as “Candidate A,” and Gore’s dealings with another of Mr. Fenty’s rivals, who is identified in the documents as “Candidate B.” Gore used his position in Candidate A’s campaign to help funnel money illegally from that campaign to the campaign of Candidate B. The goal was to keep Candidate B in the mayoral race so that Candidate B would continue his verbal attacks on Mr. Fenty. Gore later destroyed the record of these payments and lied about it when questioned by the FBI. * * * “Thomas Gore is headed to prison because he lied to the FBI and shredded documents to cover up corruption in the 2010 D.C. mayoral election,” said U.S. Attorney Machen. “He will be deprived of his liberty because he tried to deprive the voters of the truth about a secret scheme to funnel money from one mayoral campaign to another. Jail time is a significant consequence that reflects the seriousness of his efforts to obstruct justice and subvert the democratic process.” “Corruption will not be overlooked or tolerated, no matter the level of government, the complexity of the scheme, or the names of those committing the fraud,” said Assistant Director in Charge Parlave. “The FBI will continue to pursue public corruption cases in order to bring confidence to the citizens of the District of Columbia, who deserve government officials who are elected fairly and without scandal.” * * * Prior to 2010, Gore had experience working with Candidate A in other campaigns. He was the official treasurer of Candidate A’s campaigns in 2004 and 2006 and was well aware of the dictates of local campaign finance laws. The illegal activities began in or around June 2010. Gore provided Brooks with money orders, which had been purchased with excessive or unattributed cash contributions to the campaign of Candidate A. Brooks filled in the names of real persons who had not contributed these funds in the purchaser lines of these money orders. The statement of offense details a total of five such money orders in June and July of 2010, totaling $660, which Gore provided to Brooks for Candidate B. Gore kept a record of these funds, noting the amounts provided, in a spiral notebook. Candidate B subsequently reported the receipt of the money orders, in the names of the purported purchasers, as individual contributions he received, listing them in reports to the District of Columbia’s Office of Campaign Finance of the Board of Elections and Ethics. The campaign finance charges stem from Gore’s handling of the money orders. The obstruction charge involves actions taken by Gore months after the election. On March 6, 2011, allegations by Candidate B about the campaign of Candidate A appeared in the news media. In these reports, Candidate B alleged that, during the 2010 campaign, he had been promised a job in a future Candidate A administration. In addition, Candidate B said that he received payments from two members of the campaign for Candidate A in return for staying in the mayoral race and continuing to attack Mr. Fenty. On March 9, 2011, the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia issued a public statement that the U.S. Attorney’s Office and the FBI were assessing the allegations made by Candidate B. Throughout the rest of 2011, agents from the FBI interviewed witnesses and collected documents related to the allegations. Shortly after Candidate B’s allegations became public, Gore shredded the spiral notebook in which he had kept a record of payments to Candidate B. He did so to prevent law enforcement from finding out about the diversion of funds, which he knew to be illegal. In addition, during an interview with the FBI on October 13, 2011, Gore made a number of false statements about the spiral notebook and the records that he kept. In announcing the sentence, U.S. Attorney Machen and Assistant Director in Charge Parlave commended the work of those who investigated the case for the FBI. They also expressed appreciation to Criminal Investigators Matthew Kutz, Mark Crawford, and Melissa Matthews; Paralegal Specialists Tasha Harris, Shanna Hays, Sylvester Brown, and Diane Hayes; and former Legal Assistant Jared Forney, all of the U.S. Attorney’s Office. Finally, they acknowledged the work of Assistant U.S. Attorney Ellen Chubin Epstein and former Assistant U.S. Attorney Mary Chris Dobbie, who investigated and prosecuted this matter.
corruption ST. LOUIS, MO—The fire chief for the Kinloch Fire Protection District, Darran Kelley, pled guilty to charges involving his unauthorized use of more than $140,000 of district funds from January 2007 to January 11, 2013. He also pled guilty to making a false statement relative to his receipt of Social Security disability payments, which resulted in overpayments to him of approximately $120,000. Kelley has been the district fire chief since 2002. According to court documents, the Kinloch Fire Protection District maintained a district banking account for the receipt and disbursement of district funds. From January 2007 through January 2013, the district received approximately $160,361 in tax revenues from St. Louis County, Missouri. The city of Kinloch also distributed city funds to the district’s bank account for payroll and operations of the district. It was a part of Kelley’s scheme that on one or more occasions he made unauthorized cash withdrawals from the district’s bank account for his own personal use, including for the purchase of various personal items and for gambling at several casinos in the St. Louis area, that were unrelated to the legitimate operations of the district. It was a further part of Kelley’s scheme that on one or more occasions, he made unauthorized transfers of funds from the district’s bank account to pay for charges on his own personal Mastercard credit card, which were unrelated to the legitimate operations of the district. In June 2010, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) awarded the district a grant of $237,500 to cover 95 percent of the $250,000 total cost of a fire engine, based upon an application submitted by Kelley. The city of Kinloch also distributed $15,000 of city funds to the district to cover the district’s responsibility to pay five percent of the cost of the fire engine. Some of these funds were later used by Kelley to purchase personal items and for gambling at several casinos. During April 2011, it was widely reported by the St. Louis area media that the district was unable to pay the insurance premium due on the newly purchased fire engine. The premium then due was reported to be approximately $2,322. Numerous private citizens saw the media reports and made donations to the district to pay for the insurance premium, which donations totaled well in excess of the premium then due. Kelley paid the insurer $2,322, and the remaining donated funds were retained in the district’s bank account and later used by Kelley to purchase personal items and for gambling at several area casinos. While Kelley engaged in the unauthorized use of district funds, there were substantial outstanding bills from AmerenUE for electric service, American Water for water service, to AT&T for telephone and communications services, and to North Central County Fire Alarm System for dispatch services, radios, and pagers. Many of these bills went unpaid as a result of his alleged criminal conduct and some of the necessary services were reduced or cut off due to non-payment. Beginning on August 15, 2000, Kelley began receiving monthly disability benefit payments through the Social Security Administration pursuant to his application for benefits relative to a personal medical condition. Following his initial application, and in order for the Social Security Administration to determine his continued eligibility for disability benefits, he was required to immediately report any work and income and to periodically verify his continued disability and report any work on Continuing Disability Review Reports. Kelley failed to truthfully report his work for the Kinloch Fire Protection District and his income from that work to the Social Security Administration. On July 26, 2011, Kelley made a false statement on his Continuing Disability Review Report by stating that he had not worked since April 1, 2006, the date of his last medical disability decision, when in fact, he had been working as the paid chief of the Kinloch Fire Protection District during that period of time. Kelley was paid a salary of approximately $640 every two weeks until December, 2011. Darran Kelley, Ferguson, Missouri, pled guilty to three felony counts of wire fraud, one felony count of federal program theft, and one felony count of making false statements, before United States District Judge Catherine D. Perry. Sentencing has been set for October 16, 2013. Each count of wire fraud carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and/or fines up to $250,000; federal program theft carries a maximum of 10 years prison and/or fines up to $250,000; and false statement carries a maximum of five years prison and/or fines up to $250,000. In determining the actual sentences, a judge is required to consider the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines, which provide recommended sentencing ranges. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the St. Louis County Police Department, and Social Security Administration-Office of Inspector General. Assistant United States Attorney Hal Goldsmith is handling the case for the U.S. Attorney’s Office.
corruption William P. Mack, 64, a resident of Kenner, Louisiana, was sentenced today to 20 months in prison by U.S. District Judge Nannette Jolivette Brown for conspiracy to commit bribery, announced U.S. Attorney Dana J. Boente. In addition to the term of imprisonment, Judge Brown fined Mack $60,000 and placed him on two years of supervised release. According to court documents, beginning in 2002, Mack, the former president and owner of First Communications Company (FCC), a provider of telecommunications equipment and services, began a business relationship with then-Jefferson Parish councilman Aaron F. Broussard (Broussard). This relationship entailed Mack paying Broussard approximately $1,500 per month in exchange for Broussard’s official acts to steer telecommunications work to Mack and his company. By 2004, when Broussard was elected Jefferson Parish President, Mack continued to corruptly pay Broussard approximately $1,500 per month in exchange for Broussard’s efforts to steer work, including Parish telecommunications work, to FCC. As noted in the factual basis, during the time Broussard was Parish president, Mack paid him approximately $66,000 in exchange for, among other things, Jefferson Parish telecommunications work, collectively worth approximately $40,000. In September 2012, Broussard, the former Jefferson Parish president, pled guilty to multiple corruption charges, including conspiracy to commit bribery involving the bribes paid by Mack. Broussard was ultimately sentenced to 46 months’ imprisonment. The case was investigated by special agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Matt Chester and Brian Klebba.
corruption ALEXANDRIA, VA—Douglas G. “Bo” Taylor, age 52, of Remington, Virginia, the former chief of the Remington Volunteer Fire and Rescue Department (RVFD), was charged in an eight-count indictment by a federal grand jury on allegations related to theft from a program receiving federal funds, wire fraud, and filing false individual income tax returns, according to charges unsealed today. In a separate indictment, William Joseph Stuart, age 52, of Bealton, Virginia, the former president of the RVFD, was also charged with theft from a program receiving federal funds, according to a one-count indictment made public yesterday. Neil H. MacBride, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia; Valerie Parlave, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office; and Thomas J. Kelly, Special Agent in Charge, Washington, D.C. Field Office, IRS-Criminal Investigation, made the announcement today after the indictment of Taylor was unsealed. Taylor is scheduled to make his initial appearance later this afternoon in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. Stuart is expected to appear in the same Court on Friday, August 2, 2013, for his arraignment. Taylor faces a maximum penalty on the two theft charges of 10 years in prison and 20 years in prison for each of the four wire fraud charges. These charges carry a maximum fine of $250,000 and full restitution. Finally, for each of the two charges alleging the filing of false income tax returns, Taylor faces a maximum penalty of three years in prison, a $100,000 fine, and full restitution. Stuart faces a maximum penalty on the single theft count of 10 years in prison, $250,000 fine, and full restitution. According to the indictment, Taylor served as the chief of the RVFD from 1994 through 2011, during a time when the RVFD fire station underwent major renovations and reconstruction with funding, in significant part, from the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The indictment alleges that Taylor, a licensed master electrician, offered to do some of the renovations at the fire station and only seek reimbursement for his out-of-pocket expenses. As the charges allege, Taylor then submitted false invoices that contained charges for materials Taylor did not purchase and charges for labor that, at times, was never performed or were inflated from the hours that were actually performed. Taylor is also accused of using a Prince William County Public Schools System (PWCS) credit card to purchase some of the materials used at the fire station project (and elsewhere). In total, the indictment alleges that Taylor defrauded the RVFD of more than $90,000 and the PWCS of approximately $60,000. Finally, Taylor is accused of not disclosing the money he fraudulently obtained from the RVFD and winnings from the Virginia lottery on two individual income tax returns filed with the IRS. A separate indictment alleges that during 2008 and 2009, Stuart embezzled approximately $40,000 from the RVFD financial accounts where he had signature authority. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Washington Field Office and the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney Mark D. Lytle is prosecuting the case on behalf of the United States. Any person who believes they may have information regarding public corruption in the Northern Virginia area is encouraged to call the FBI’s Northern Virginia Public Corruption Hotline at 703-686-6225. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia at http://www.justice.gov/usao/vae.
corruption ALEXANDRIA, VA—Jerry Keith Cromer, Jr., 79, of Gainesville, Virginia, pleaded guilty today to theft from an organization receiving federal funds. Neil H. MacBride, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia; Valerie Parlave, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office; and Colonel W. Steven Flaherty, Virginia State Police Superintendent, made the announcement after the plea was accepted by United States District Judge Gerald Bruce Lee. Cromer faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison, a $250,000 fine, and full restitution when he is sentenced on October 11, 2013. According to the statement of facts filed with the plea agreement, Cromer served as treasurer of the Aldie Volunteer Fire Department from 1995 through 2012. The members of the fire department elected Cromer to this post. In the statement of facts, Cromer admitted that from 2000 to 2012, he intentionally embezzled and converted to his own use approximately $645,000 that belonged to the Aldie Volunteer Fire Department. He used these fire department funds to satisfy his personal mortgage payments, pay personal credit card bills and repair his automobile and for other personal expenditures. In addition to local community donations, the Aldie Volunteer Fire Department receives funding from Loudoun County and the federal government. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Washington Field Office and the Virginia State Police. Assistant United States Attorney Mark D. Lytle is prosecuting the case on behalf of the United States. The FBI encourages anyone with information regarding similar allegations of fraud or corruption to call the FBI’s Northern Virginia Public Corruption tip line at (703) 686-6225. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia at http://www.justice.gov/usao/vae.
corruption MCALLEN, TX—Alexis Espinoza, 30, has entered a guilty plea to one count of conspiring to possess with the intent to distribute more than five kilograms of cocaine and more than 500 grams of methamphetamine, United States Attorney Kenneth Magidson announced today. Espinoza, of McAllen, admitted that during 2012, he utilized his position as a law enforcement officer to traffic narcotics. Espinoza, a former officer with the Mission Police Department (MPD), along with other MPD officers and deputies of the Hidalgo County Sheriff’s Offic, used his law enforcement authority to steal narcotics that were then sold to local drug dealers. U.S. District Judge Randy Crane, who accepted the guilty plea, has set sentencing for September 10, 2013, at which time he faces a minimum of 10 years and up to life in prison, along with a potential fine up to $10 million. Espinoza was permitted to remain on bond pending that hearing. The investigation leading to the charges was conducted by the Drug Enforcement Administration, Homeland Security Investigations, FBI, Homeland Security Investigations-Office of Professional Responsibility, and Texas Department of Public Safety. Assistant United States Attorneys James Sturgis and Anibal Alaniz are prosecuting the case.
corruption A retired Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army who served in Iraq as a contracting officer pleaded guilty in U.S. District Court in Tacoma today to criminal conflict of interest for using his position of authority to benefit himself to the detriment of the United States. Harold L. Broek, 49, who served as chief of contracting at the Tikrit Regional Contracting Center in Tikrit, Iraq, established a company, Global Motion, that received contracts from an Iraqi company to which he had awarded contracts. Broek is scheduled to be sentenced by U.S. District Judge Benjamin H. Settle on October 15, 2013. Criminal conflict of interest is punishable by up to five years in prison. According to the records filed in the case, Broek used his position of authority in the U.S. Army, his knowledge of government contracting, and his relationship with Rohit Goel and Avalon International Limited to contract with Goel and Avalon on government contracts. Before Broek left Iraq in 2007, he directed his family in Washington State to form a company, Global Motion, for the purpose of receiving contracts from Goel and Avalon. While in Iraq, Broek had entered into an illegal agreement with Goel whereby Goel would send certain government contracts, awarded by the United States to Goel and Avalon, to the new company formed by Broek and his family. Pursuant to this arrangement, Goel agreed to award government contracts to Broek’s new company, to pay Broek’s new company 30 percent of the profit on such contracts, and to front necessary funds or finance any contract expenditures Broek’s company would incur in purchasing goods to perform under the contracts. Before leaving Iraq and returning to the United States, Broek participated in awarding contracts to Avalon. Specifically, in July 2007, shortly before he left Iraq to return to Lacey, Washington, Broek signed a waiver shortening the deadline on a contract for the purchase and delivery of line-of-sight radios. By shortening the deadline, Broek decreased the chances that Avalon’s competitors might win the contract. Later in July 2007, one of Broek’s subordinates in Iraq awarded a contract for line-of-sight radios, valued at $162,151, to Goel and Avalon. Goel, in turn, awarded the contract for line-of-sight radios to Broek’s company, Global Motion. In September 2007, Avalon fronted $99,978 to Global Motion to finance the purchase of the line-of-sight radios. To fill the line-of-sight radio contract, Global Motion spent $58,733 to purchase the radios and have them shipped to Iraq. Global Motion retained the balance of the funds from Avalon, making a profit of $29,871.90 on this deal. According to tax returns, Global Motion made a profit in 2007 and 2008 of $52,400.16. Pursuant to the plea agreement, Broek will make restitution payments to the United States in the amount of $52,400.16. The case was investigated by the Special Inspector General for Iraq Recovery, Federal Bureau of Investigation, and Defense Criminal Investigative Service. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney David Reese Jennings. Press contact for the U.S. Attorney’s Office is Thomas Bates, and he can be reached at 206-553-7970 or Thomas.Bates@usdoj.gov.
corruption NEWARK, NJ—The director of operations for the Housing Authority of the Township of North Bergen, New Jersey was sentenced today to 46 months in prison for extorting employees of a maintenance company contracted by the authority, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. John T. Kennell, 50, of North Bergen, previously pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Jose L. Linares to an information charging him with extortion under color of official right and by fear of economic harm. Judge Linares imposed the sentence today in Newark federal court. According to documents filed in the case and statements made in court: While the director of operations for the NBHA, Kennell used his official position to extort cash payments from employees of a company that provided repair and grounds maintenance services. Kennell, who supervised the employees of the company working for the Authority, accepted cash payments in amounts ranging from $100 to $400 from employees for, among other things, securing additional paid vacation days for these employees. Kennell assisted in securing these additional paid vacation days by falsely reporting to the company that the employees were working at the NBHA, when they were, in fact, traveling outside of the United States. Between February 2008 and June 2011, the company compensated employees for approximately 80 days of unauthorized vacation, totaling $12,498, because of Kennell’s actions. Kennell accepted $2,000 to $2,500 in payments for his official assistance in this fraud. He also accepted cash payments of $50 to $100 from an undocumented alien employee of the company for permitting that employee to twice change the alias that employee was using to continue working. Using his position of authority, as well as the threat of termination of employment, Kennell also regularly extorted the employees of the company—sometimes as frequently as twice a month—for cash payments in amounts ranging from $10 to $20 per employee. In addition to the prison term, Judge Linares sentenced Kennell to three years of supervised release and ordered him to pay a $5,000 fine. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford in Newark; special agents of U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Office of Inspector General, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Cary A. Rubenstein; and criminal investigators from the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Newark with the investigation leading to today’s sentence. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Lee M. Cortes, Jr. of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division in Newark.
corruption DENVER—Jeffery Allan Johnston, age 46, of Parker, Colorado, has been arrested based on a criminal complaint charging him with the drug trafficking related crimes, United States Attorney John Walsh, FBI Denver Special Agent in Charge Thomas Ravenelle, and Littleton Police Chief Doug Stephens announced. Johnston was arrested without incident at his Parker home by the FBI on Friday, July 19, 2013. The criminal complaint was unsealed by the court today. Johnston appeared in U.S. District Court in Denver this afternoon, where he was advised of his rights and the charges pending against him. The government is asking the court that Johnston be held in custody without bond pending a resolution of his case. A detention hearing and a preliminary hearing is scheduled to take place on July 25, 2013, at 3:00 p.m. The criminal complaint charges Johnston with possession of a mixture and substance containing a detectable amount of MDMA with intent to distribute; maintaining a drug-involved premises; possessing a firearm in furtherance of a drug trafficking crime; and using a telephone to facilitate a drug trafficking felony. According to the affidavit in support of the arrest warrant, on July 15, 2013, Johnston contacted a friend via telephone. During the call, Johnston said he wanted to “catch up” with the friend. The person Johnston contacted is a known narcotics trafficker who has been invited to Johnston’s residence previously to distribute narcotics to guests at parties Johnston hosts. According to the friend, Johnston paid for 3,4-methylenedioxy methamphetamine (known as MDMA, Ecstasy, or X) for his parties. During the phone call, Johnston asked if he could purchase between 40 and 50 Ecstasy pills from the source for between $15 to $20 each. They discussed the fact that some of the Ecstasy currently available was not well made. Johnston offered to use a test kit to confirm the quality of the Ecstasy. On July 19, 2013, the FBI conducted a controlled delivery of 37 Ecstasy pills and 6.3 grams of Ecstasy powder. Johnston paid $1,300 for the delivery. Following the exchange of Ecstasy and money, Johnston was taken into custody, and a search warrant was executed a Johnston’s residence. Agents found the 10 grams of Ecstasy just delivered to Johnston in a kitchen drawer and a stainless steel Colt Officers Model .45 caliber pistol, which was located in a small black bag on the counter above the drawer containing the Ecstasy. The pistol was loaded with seven .45 rounds of ammunition in the magazine and one .45 round in the chamber. Investigators also found suspected cocaine, suspected steroids, hundreds of suspected prescription pills, additional firearms, and hundreds of rounds of ammunition, all in his residence. Further, agents discovered evidence of drug trafficking in a kitchen drawer. In that drawer was empty pill pouches, a drug test kit and a scale. In the complaint, the preliminary charging document, Johnston faces one count of possession of a mixture and substance containing a detectable amount of MDMA with intent to distribute, which carries a penalty of not more than 20 years in federal prison and a fine of not more than $1,000,000; one count of maintaining a drug involved premises, which carries a penalty of not more than 20 years in federal prison and a fine of not more than $500,000; one count of possession of a firearm in furtherance of a drug trafficking crime, which carries a penalty of not less than five years and not more than life in federal prison and a fine of up to $250,000; one count of using a telephone to facilitate a drug trafficking felony, which carries a penalty of not more than four years in federal prison and up to a $500,000 fine. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). Those who may have information regarding this matter should contact the FBI at 303-629-7171. Johnston is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Guy Till and David Conner. A criminal complaint is a probable cause charging document. Anyone accused of committing a federal felony crime has a Constitutional right to be indicted by a grand jury, thus finalizing the charges. The charges contained in the complaint are allegations, and the defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption COLUMBUS—Kevin R. Cornelius, Special Agent in Charge (SAC) of the Cincinnati Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), today announced that the FBI recently arrested Stevie Billups, 48, of Columbus, Ohio, a detective with the Columbus Division of Police on a criminal complaint for the attempted distribution of heroin and for the use or carrying of a firearm during and in relation to a drug trafficking crime. The investigation into Billups was conducted jointly by the Ohio Casino Control Commission and the FBI’s Central Ohio Public Corruption Task Force which includes special agents from the FBI and the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation (BCI). SAC Cornelius commended the Columbus Division of Police and Police Chief Kim Jacobs for the tremendous cooperation they provided during this investigation. SAC Cornelius also thanked the Homeland Security Investigations directorate (ICE) for assisting in the investigation. The criminal complaint filed by the FBI in this investigation was recently unsealed by a U.S. District Court Magistrate Judge. The public is reminded that criminal complaints contain only allegations of criminal misconduct and that defendants are presumed to be innocent unless proven guilty in a court of law.
corruption Cheating in Contracts A $30 Million Case of Corruption 07/19/13 It’s been billed as the “largest domestic bribery and bid-rigging scheme in the history of federal contracting cases.” Specifically, over a five-year period, more than $30 million was illegally siphoned from federal coffers by a ring of crooked public officials and government contractors in the D.C. area operating via bribes, kickbacks, and other dirty dealings. A big fix, especially in lean budget times. The plot was thickening, too—a billion-dollar government contract was about to be steered illegally into favored hands in exchange for sizeable payments under the table. But ultimately the hammer fell, and fell hard, following a massive, multi-year investigation by the FBI and its partners called Five Aces (a reference to cheating by stacking the deck) that came to light in October 2011 after the first arrests. A total of 15 federal employees and contractors—plus one company, Nova Datacom—have since pled guilty. That includes the mastermind of the conspiracy, Kerry Khan, who just last week was sentenced to nearly 20 years in prison. Khan, while serving as a program manager and contracting officer’s technical representative for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, cooked up the bribery scheme in 2006 with his co-worker Michael Alexander to take their own piece of the contracting pie. The case evolved into a complicated conspiracy, involving six different companies and several shady practices. The FBI began its investigation in the summer of 2009, when we received a tip indicating that an area business was submitting phony references and evaluations to boost its chances of getting government contracts. The company, we discovered, also had a disabled veteran falsely posing as its owner—which gave it an advantage under federal contracting laws. We soon learned that Khan and his criminal colleague had created a network of crooked contractors who agreed to pay them bribes and kickbacks in exchange for winning deals. In most of those cases, the contracts were fulfilled and the work done, but often times there were extra charges disguised as “overhead” on the bills…and most of that money ended up in Khan’s pockets. In other instances, Khan awarded contracts to straw subcontractors and paid fake invoices submitted by the fictitious companies. For the members of the criminal conspiracy, it was a lucrative enterprise—especially for Khan, who was paid, directly and indirectly, more than $12 million. Khan used the money to live large: in addition to paying off his mortgage and remodeling his house, he purchased flat screen TVs, computers, luxury watches, airline tickets, accommodations in five-star hotels, high-end liquor, and a dozen properties in three states. And apparently, money is thicker than blood in some cases—Khan got his son and brother involved in the scheme (both have since pled guilty). Five Aces was a multi-agency undertaking from the start, with the FBI and its partners uncovering vital evidence using sophisticated investigative techniques, including consensual recordings by cooperating witnesses and court-authorized wiretaps. We heard details about crimes directly from the mouths of the criminals committing them. Justice has been served, and, just as importantly, more than $32 million is being rightfully returned to the U.S. government and the American people. It’s another case in point as to why the FBI continues to focus squarely on public corruption as its top criminal investigative priority. Resources: - Khan’s sentencing - Alexander’s sentencing - Nova Datacom guilty plea 
corruption LITTLE ROCK, AR—Christopher R. Thyer, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Arkansas; Randall C. Coleman, Special Agent in Charge of the Little Rock Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and Colonel Stan Witt, Director of the Arkansas State Police, announced that Sedrick Reed, age 43, and Lamont M. Johnson, age 45, both of Little Rock, were arrested and charged by federal complaint yesterday with possession with intent to distribute and distribution of cocaine. Both have an initial appearance scheduled for 2 p.m. today before United States Magistrate Judge J. Thomas Ray. The complaint alleges that Reed, who at the time of the investigation was an Arkansas State Police (ASP) lieutenant with full oversight of the Troop A evidence vault, broke the evidence seal on a box of cocaine held in evidence and removed cocaine more than once for distribution. The investigation revealed that he was selling the cocaine to Johnson. The allegations in support of the criminal complaint are set forth in the complaint affidavit. “It’s a very sad day when a law enforcement officer violates the public trust,” stated Thyer. “Thankfully, because of the integrity and leadership at the Arkansas State Police, information regarding Lt. Reed’s illegal actions was turned over to the Federal Bureau of Investigation to ferret out the dishonesty by one of their own. The ASP continued to provide cooperation throughout this investigation which has led to the charges Mr. Reed faces today.” “Yesterday’s arrest was a result of the collaborative efforts of the ArkTrust Public Corruption Task Force,” stated FBI Special Agent in Charge Randall C. Coleman. “The allegations against Lieutenant Reed are among the most serious and important that we investigate. When we receive credible allegations of law enforcement corruption, we will follow the facts where they lead us, as we want Arkansans to continue to trust in the vast majority of officers who respect their oath and who are committed to public service.” Colonel Witt stated, “We have worked alongside the FBI since the case was opened and regardless of where an investigation of this type may lead, even if it’s among our own ranks, the state police will always be accountable to the citizens and the laws they expect us to enforce.” If convicted, both Reed and Johnson face not more than 20 years in prison, a $1,000,000 fine, or both with not less than three years’ supervised release. The investigation was conducted by the ArkTrust Public Corruption Task Force led by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Little Rock Police Department with full cooperation from the Arkansas State Police. Assistant United States Attorneys Christopher Givens and Julie Peters are prosecuting this case for the United States. The charges set forth in a complaint are merely allegations. A federal grand jury will decide whether to indict on these charges. The defendant is presumed innocent until proven guilty.
corruption Michael J. Moore, United States Attorney for the Middle District of Georgia, announced the sentencing of Jarrod “J. D.” Murkerson, 35, a resident of Blakely, Georgia, on July 18, 2013, by the Honorable W. Louis Sands, United States District Judge for the Middle District of Georgia. On March 27, 2013, Mr. Murkerson entered a plea of guilty to extortion by a public official. Judge Sands sentenced Mr. Murkerson to serve 24 months’ imprisonment, followed by two years’ supervised release, and a $100 mandatory assessment fee. There is no parole in the federal system. As part of his plea, Mr. Murkerson admitted that in July 2011, while he was employed with the Early County Sheriff’s Office as an investigator, he provided information and protection to an illegal drug dealer. Court records revealed that Mr. Murkerson was not aware that the drug dealer was working as a confidential informant with law enforcement. Mr. Murkerson admitted that he received $1,000 in exchange for the information and protection that was provided to the informant when he transported nine ounces of cocaine through Early County. Mr. Murkerson also admitted that in August 2011, he agreed to sell the confidential informant steroids for $1,200. “Anytime a law enforcement officer violates the law that they have taken an oath to uphold, it causes the trust of the people they promised to protect and serve to erode,” said U.S. Attorney Michael Moore. The case was investigated by Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Georgia Bureau of Investigation and prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney K. Alan Dasher. Inquiries regarding the case should be directed to Sue McKinney, Public Affairs Specialist, United States Attorney’s Office at (478) 621-2602.
corruption WASHINGTON—Ayawna Webster, who was an aide and chief of staff for former District of Columbia Council Member Harry L. Thomas, Jr., pled guilty today to a criminal tax charge for her role in channeling $110,000 in youth grant funds used to pay for an inaugural ball. The guilty plea, which took place in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, was announced by U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen, Jr.; Valerie Parlave, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office; and Thomas J. Kelly, Special Agent in Charge of the Washington Field Office of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation. Webster, 36, of Washington, D.C., pled guilty to attempting to interfere with the administration of the Internal Revenue Service laws. The Honorable John D. Bates scheduled sentencing for November 1, 2013. The charge carries a maximum statutory sentence of three years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000. Under federal sentencing guidelines, the parties have agreed that the likely range is up to six months of incarceration and a fine of $1,000 to $10,000. Webster is the sixth person to plead guilty to charges in an ongoing investigation into activities involving former Council Member Thomas. Thomas pled guilty last year to charges stemming from a scheme in which he used more than $350,000 in taxpayers’ money that was earmarked for the arts, youth recreation, and summer programs for his own personal benefit, including to pay for vehicles, clothing, and trips. He resigned as a condition of his plea agreement and is now serving a 38-month prison sentence. The others who have pled guilty include James Garvin and Marshall D. Banks, leaders of one of the non-profits used in the scheme. Both men, from the Langston in the 21st Century Foundation, pled guilty to misprision of a felony, a charge holding them accountable for failing to report and concealing the misappropriation of $392,000 in government grants. Additionally, Danita C. Doleman, the president of Youth Technology Institute, pled guilty to filing a false return in connection with her assistance in funneling public money to pay for the 51st State Inaugural Ball. Finally, Millicent D. West, the former director and chief executive officer of a non-profit organization that promotes youth opportunities, pled guilty to a criminal tax charge for her role in channeling the youth grant funds to pay for the ball. Garvin and Banks were sentenced to three years of supervised probation, 80 hours of community service, and ordered to pay full restitution. Doleman and West are awaiting sentencing. “Today Ayawna Webster became the sixth person to plead guilty as part of the investigation of her former boss, Council Member Harry Thomas, Jr.,” said U.S. Attorney Machen. “Her guilty plea is another reminder of the foolishness of going along with criminal schemes to placate corrupt public officials. This investigation is continuing.” “Ms. Webster failed to report the illegal use of public funds, causing money dedicated to District of Columbia youth to be diverted to a single person for their own benefit,” said Assistant Director in Charge Parlave. “This plea, along with that of others who helped to conceal this scheme, shows that those who commit corruption, as well as those who allow it, will be held accountable for their actions.” “IRS-Criminal Investigation is committed to working with our law enforcement partners to combat public corruption,” said Special Agent in Charge Kelly. “Ms. Webster’s plea today is a reminder to all that any abuse of the public trust is a serious matter and those violating that trust will be held accountable.” Webster worked from January 2007 until December 2010 as Thomas’s director of constituent services. In January 2011, he promoted her to be his chief of staff. In addition to her work duties, Webster was the president of a local chapter of a political organization. Thomas, who took office in January 2007 as the Ward 5 representative, served during his first term as chair of the council’s Committee on Libraries, Parks, Recreation and Planning, which involved oversight responsibility for the D.C. Department of Parks and Recreation. In that role, he worked with a non-profit public-private partnership that provided resources and developed programs to benefit children and youth in the District of Columbia. The partnership was primarily funded by the District of Columbia government through funds designated by the mayor and council for particular youth-related purposes. The partnership provided grants to organizations for programs tailored for children and youth. The charge against Webster deals mostly with her role in the 51st State Inaugural Ball, held on January 20, 2009 in the Wilson Building. Thomas was closely involved in the planning. He had sought to host the event but was prohibited from doing so. He then asked Webster if her political organization would serve as the host. She agreed, and she then organized the event, including booking entertainment and contracting with caterers, janitorial services, and decoration providers, at Thomas’s direction. The ball was an adult, formal, black-tie event open to members of the public who had purchased tickets for $51 apiece. Webster tried to get a liquor license for the ball, but the request was denied because of its location at the Wilson Building. Before the event occurred, Webster knew that ticket sales were not generating enough money to cover costs. As the event approached, Thomas assured Webster that she would get the funds to pay for the ball. However, after the event, she was unable to pay vendors. Thomas then directed Webster to contact a staff member, who was director of the Committee on Libraries, Parks, Recreation and Planning. On January 29, 2009, this staff member submitted budget paperwork to the public-private partnership seeking a grant of $110,000 for Webster’s political organization that would fund a “youth/young adult inauguration celebration.” The public-private partnership requested that Webster’s organization complete a tax form to enable check processing. At the direction of the staff member, Webster subsequently completed a tax form, backdated to January 4, 2009, that falsely listed her organization’s name as “DC Young America.” The grant recipient eventually was changed to the Youth Technology Institute, another non-profit, and new paperwork was submitted leading to the release of the funds. In truth, the Youth Technology Institute immediately forwarded nearly the entire amount to Webster’s political organization. In addition to paying expenses for the inaugural ball, Webster received permission from Thomas to use some of the grant funds for other purposes, including expenses she incurred while traveling on behalf of her political organization. Also, funds were used to pay a vendor that supplied services to another of Thomas’s events. In her plea, Webster also admitted failing to report her organization’s political activity. During a hearing in February 2010 of the District of Columbia Office of Campaign Finance, for example, she testified that the organization did not have any financial activity during the time period in which it actually obtained $104,500 for expenses associated with the inaugural ball. Also, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2009, Webster never filed federal or District of Columbia tax returns on behalf of the organization. In announcing the guilty plea, U.S. Attorney Machen, Assistant Director in Charge Parlave, and Special Agent in Charge Kelly praised the work of the investigators from the FBI’s Washington Field Office and IRS-CI who worked on the case. They also acknowledged the efforts of those who worked on the case form the U.S. Attorney’s Office, including Criminal Investigators Matthew Kutz, Mark Crawford, and Melissa Matthews; Paralegal Specialists Tasha Harris, Diane Hayes, Shanna Hays, Lenisse Edloe, and Monica Johnson; Legal Assistant Krishawn Graham; and former Assistant U.S. Attorney Bridget Fitzpatrick. Finally, they commended the work of Assistant U.S. Attorneys Jonathan W. Haray, David Johnson, and James E. Smith, who are prosecuting the matter.
corruption SHREVEPORT, LA—United States Attorney Stephanie A. Finley announced today that Murlin D. Graham, 37, of Bossier City, Louisiana, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Donald E. Walter to 36 months in prison and three years of supervised release. He was also ordered to pay $582,333 in restitution and forfeit a Stingray speedboat and travel trailer. He pleaded guilty on April 16, 2013. According to evidence presented at the guilty plea, Graham created “shell companies” with names similar to those that did business with CW&W Contractors Inc., which is where he worked as an accountant. The shell companies had bank accounts but provided no services. The shell company accounts were solely under Graham’s control. Graham caused CW&W to make payments to his shell companies rather than to CW&W’s actual customers on multiple occasions for almost two years. As a result of his fraudulent conduct, Graham stole $582,333 from CW&W. “The defendant in this case sought to hide his theft but was ultimately brought to justice,” Finley stated. “Through his actions, this trusted employee deprived his employer of business income and cost himself time in federal prison. We will continue to prosecute cases like this to the fullest extent of the law.” “This case is another example of local and federal authorities working together to achieve a common goal of bringing justice to the citizens of Webster Parish,” said Gary Sexton, Webster Parish Sheriff. The Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Webster Parish Sheriff’s Office conducted the investigation. Assistant U.S. Attorney D. Cytheria Jernigan prosecuted the case.
corruption ABINGDON, VA—United States Attorney Timothy J. Heaphy announced today that the former chief of police in Marion, Virginia pled guilty today in the United States District Court for the Western District of Virginia in Abingdon to a charge involving the distribution of methamphetamine, cocaine, oxycodone, and hydrocodone. Michael Dean Roberts, a.k.a., “Fireball,” age 54, of Saltville, Virginia, entered a plea of guilty to a one-count nformation charging conspiracy to distribute methamphetamine, cocaine, oxycodone, and hydrocodone. Roberts faces a potential maximum sentence of up to 20 years’ imprisonment and a potential fine of $1,000,000. According to evidence presented at the guilty plea hearing by Assistant United States Attorney Zachary Lee, Roberts was involved in the distribution of cocaine, methamphetamine, oxycodone, and hydrocodone between 2006 and June 2013, all while employed as the chief of police of the Marion, Virginia Police Department. As part of a joint investigation by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives; the Federal Bureau of Investigation; the Drug Enforcement Administration; the Virginia State Police; and the Washington County Sheriff’s Department, law enforcement officers utilized a confidential informant to obtain hydrocodone pills from Roberts on three separate occasions in May and June 2013. The investigation determined that Roberts was involved in the distribution of at least 7,331 hydrocodone pills, 365 grams of methamphetamine, and small amounts of cocaine and oxycodone. The investigation further determined that Roberts used his position as chief of police to obtain some of these drugs from the Marion Police Department evidence room. Sentencing has been set for October 9, 2013, in the United States District Court for the Western District of Virginia in Abingdon. The investigation of the case was conducted by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives; the Federal Bureau of Investigation; the Virginia State Police; the Drug Enforcement Administration; and the Washington County Sheriff’s Department. Assistant United States Attorney Zachary Lee is prosecuting the case for the United States.
corruption JACKSON, MS—Two former law enforcement officers were sentenced today by U.S. District Judge Tom S. Lee for theft of government funds and property. Zach Robinson, a former deputy with the Hinds County Sheriff’s Office, and Kent Daniels, a former Jackson Police officer and investigator for the Hinds County District Attorney’s Office, were each sentenced to 12 months in federal prison. They were also ordered to pay joint restitution in the amount of $21,996. In March 2013, Robinson and Daniels pled guilty to robbing a motel room that they believed was being used by a drug dealer. They took $23,000 and seven iPads that had actually been placed in the room by the FBI. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Jerry Rushing and Mike Hurst.
corruption On July 16 and 17, 2013, the Jackson Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation will host a two-day Active Shooter Executive Law Enforcement Conference in Starkville, Mississippi. This conference, the second of at least three to be held in various locations in Mississippi, was developed pursuant to a 2013 White House training initiative and was designed to present local, tribal, federal, and state law enforcement partners with best crisis management practices and lessons learned in mass casualty/active shooter events. In addition, conference attendees will receive information concerning assets and assistance available from the FBI should events exceed or overwhelm resources of the local jurisdiction. The conferences are for local, state, tribal, and federal law enforcement agencies, as well as fire departments and other emergency/public safety agencies, throughout Mississippi. Tabletop Exercises will be held subsequent to each conference to increase the collaboration and coordination of public safety agencies in the planning and preparation for the unlikely active shooter incident. The Investigative Assistance for Violent Crimes Act of 2012 was signed into law in January 2013, giving federal law enforcement agencies the authority to assist in violent acts and shootings in public places and in mass or attempted mass killings. Furthermore, Executive Order 3365-2013 assigned the Department of Justice, Department of Homeland Security, and Department of Education the responsibilities to lead law enforcement training and develop model emergency management plans (EMPs) for schools, institutions of higher learning, and houses of worship. As a result of the recent horrific and violent shooting incidents in Aurora, Colorado, and Newtown, Connecticut, the White House developed a new training initiative, which called for the Director of the FBI to implement a nationwide “active shooter” training program to assist all law enforcement agencies across the country. “While the FBI has been tasked to take the lead role in implementing the White House training initiative for law enforcement, this is first and foremost a collaborative effort—all public safety agencies working together, learning from one another, supporting and leveraging each other’s assets and capabilities—to more effectively respond to and resolve a critical incident, such as an active shooter event. The goal is to work together as a team to save lives,” stated FBI Special Agent in Charge Daniel McMullen, Jackson Division.
corruption OKLAHOMA CITY—James Lee Loman, 70, of McLoud, Oklahoma, a former item manager at Tinker Air Force Base, was convicted today on charges of conspiring to commit wire fraud, accepting bribes, and participating in government contracting under an illegal conflict of interest, announced Sanford C. Coats, United States Attorney for the Western District of Oklahoma. The jury heard that from approximately 2002 to 2006, Loman accepted large cash payments from an individual associated with Daytona Aerospace Inc., of Deerfield Beach, Florida, in exchange for favorable treatment in the Air Force’s purchasing of aircraft replacement parts. The evidence included numerous faxes that Loman sent from his home in McLoud to the individual in Florida. Some of these faxes calculated his bribe payments based on a percentage of aircraft sales to the Air Force, beginning at five percent and ending at 10 percent. Other faxes kept track of the amount of bribes due and the amount already paid to him. Still other faxes were “collection letters” that used coded language. Loman drove to Florida on multiple occasions to pick up the cash in increments of approximately $50,000. The faxes showed total cash bribes in the amount of $838,200. Loman could be sentenced to 20 years in prison for conspiracy, 15 years for accepting bribes, and five years for being involved in federal contracting while under a personal conflict of interest. He could also be fined up to $250,000 on each count. He could also be ordered to serve three years of supervised release after incarceration. Sentencing will take place in approximately 90 days. This conviction is the result of an investigation by the Defense Criminal Investigative Service and the United States Air Force Office of Special Investigations, with assistance from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Office of Inspector General for the U.S. Department of Transportation. The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Scott E. Williams and Chris M. Stephens.
corruption WASHINGTON—Kerry F. Khan, 55, a former program manager for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, was sentenced today to 19 years and seven months in prison on federal charges stemming from his leadership of a ring of corrupt public officials and government contractors that engaged in bribery and kickbacks and that stole over $30 million through inflated and fictitious invoices. The sentencing was announced by U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen, Jr.; Valerie Parlave, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office; Thomas J. Kelly, Special Agent in Charge of the Washington Field Office of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI); Peggy E. Gustafson, Inspector General for the Small Business Administration (SBA); Robert E. Craig, Special Agent in Charge of the Mid-Atlantic Field Office of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS); and Frank Robey, Director of the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command’s Major Procurement Fraud Unit (MPFU). To date, a total of 15 people and one company have pled guilty to charges in the largest domestic bribery and bid-rigging scheme in the history of federal contracting cases. Khan was the ninth defendant to be sentenced. According to the government’s evidence, Khan was paid, directly and indirectly, over $12 million through the bribery scheme. The government contracts were awarded from 2007 until 2011 through the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Department of the Army. The scheme involved six companies and could have resulted in even more losses for the government. Before his arrest, Khan was attempting to steer a planned $1 billion federal contract to a favored contractor in return for payments. Among other things, Khan used his share of the stolen proceeds to pay off a mortgage and refurbish his primary residence and also in connection with the purchase of another dozen pieces of real property. The money also was used for home improvements; flat screen televisions; computer equipment; furniture; two Rolex watches; airlines tickets and luxury international hotel accommodations; high-end liquor; and other major personal expenses. Khan, formerly of Alexandria, Virginia, pled guilty in May 2012 to charges of bribery and conspiracy to commit money laundering. He was sentenced by the Honorable Emmet G. Sullivan of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. In addition to the prison term, Judge Sullivan ordered Khan to pay $32.5 million in restitution to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The judge also entered a forfeiture money judgment against Khan for $11,082,687 and forfeited to the United States more than $1.3 million in bank account funds; 13 properties in Virginia, Florida, and West Virginia; and a 2011 GMC Yukon Denali truck. Khan has previously forfeited over $700,000 in bank account funds and four luxury automobiles. All of those sentenced so far have received prison terms. The investigation is continuing. * * * “Kerry Khan was the ringleader of the largest bribery and bid-rigging scheme in the history of federal contracting,” said U.S. Attorney Machen. “His corrupt network of public officials and private contractors looted the U.S. Treasury for years. Khan is now headed to prison for more than 19 years, where the friends, family, and colleagues he brought into his criminality will be joining him. His lengthy prison sentence is an appropriately forceful response to this brazen scheme.” “Through a series of deals laced with bribes and kickbacks, Mr. Khan stole more than $30 million from the American taxpayer for his personal benefit. If it had not been for law enforcement intervention, a $780 million federal contract may also have been awarded as part of the scheme,” said Assistant Director in Charge Parlave of the FBI. “Today’s sentencing serves as a reminder that corruption will not be overlooked or downplayed, and those who take part in such activity will pay the price for their crimes.” “Criminal conspiracies involving financial fraud of this magnitude are frequently described as a house of cards, and the underlying structure oftentimes falls apart and exposes the individuals’ responsible for what they are, greedy criminals,” said Special Agent in Charge Kelly of IRS-CI. “Mr. Khan’s contributions to this massive bribery and bid-rigging scheme were extensive and significant. Today’s sentence should be a warning to those involved in criminal activities that they, like Mr. Khan, will be held accountable for their actions.” “The consequence to those who betray the public trust in exchange for bribe payments is evident by today’s announcement,” said Inspector General Gustafson of the SBA. “Kerry Khan served as the ringleader in an extraordinary conspiracy to defraud the government, and his sentence demonstrates there is no tolerance for criminal activity by Federal employees who hold positions of trust in the federal contracting process. I want to thank the U.S. Attorney’s Office and our law enforcement partners for their commitment to seek justice on behalf of the American taxpayer.” “At a time when government and taxpayer resources are being stretched to their limits and our service members continue to make sacrifices to protect our national security, it is detestable that officials trusted with the oversight of Department of Defense resources and programs blatantly conspired with contractors to defraud the government and, eventually, the American warfighter,” said Special Agent in Charge Craig of DCIS. “The sentence imposed in this case sends a clear message to those who may follow in the defendant’s footsteps—the Defense Criminal Investigative Service and our law enforcement partners will take aggressive action to identify and investigate those that endeavor to take advantage of the Department of Defense and the men and women of the uniformed services.” “Army CID and its law enforcement partners joined together in bringing Mr. Khan and his co-conspirators to justice and we are very pleased with the sentencing handed down today,” said Director Robey. “Our highly trained agents are determined to root out cases of bribery and bid-rigging, and we will continue to pursue all allegations of fraud perpetrated against the U.S. Army with a great sense of importance and urgency.” * * * Khan was among four men arrested on October 4, 2011, and, according to the government’s evidence, he was the mastermind of the scheme. The others arrested that day—Michael A. Alexander, a former program manager for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers; businessman Harold F. Babb; and Khan’s son, Lee A. Khan—earlier pled guilty to charges. Khan, Lee Khan, Babb, and Alexander have been in custody since their arrests. Khan worked for the Army Corps of Engineers from 1994 until the time of his arrest in October 2011. He was a program manager and contracting officer’s technical representative with the Directorate of Contingency Operations. In that position, Kerry Khan had authority to, among other things, place orders for products and services through federal government contracts. He also had authority to certify that the work on orders had been completed. According to the government’s evidence, Khan carried out the scheme with others, including Alexander, a colleague, who was then a program manager with the Army Corps of Engineers; Babb, the former director of contracts at Eyak Technology LLC (EyakTek), an Alaska Native-owned small business; Alex N. Cho, the former chief technology officer of Nova Datacom LLC, a provider of information assurance and security services to federal agencies and commercial companies; Larry G. Corbett, owner of Core Technology LLC; Enterprise Technical Solutions Inc.; Robert L. McKinney, the president of Alpha Technology Group; Inc., a provider of program management services; James Edward Miller, the owner of Big Surf Construction Management LLC; and Nick Park, a former employee of Nova Datacom who later opened his own business, Unisource Enterprise Inc. (UEI). Also participating in the scheme, according to the government’s evidence, were Khan’s son, Lee, and his youngest brother, Nazim Khan. All have pled guilty to charges. Nova Datacom LLC pled guilty to a federal charge of conspiracy to defraud the United States. Others who have pled guilty as part of the investigation include Min Jung Cho, the former president of Nova Datacom LLC; Theodoros Hallas, the former executive vice president of Operations for Nova Datacom LLC; John Han Lee, a co-founder of Unisource Enterprise Inc.; King Everett Johnson, a former employee of Unisource Enterprise Inc. and the founder of Integrated Business and Technology Solutions LLC; and Oh Sung Kwon, also known as Thomas Kwon, the co-founder and chief executive officer of Avenciatech Inc. According to a statement of offense signed by Khan, in or around 2006, he and Alexander agreed to work together to obtain government contracts for corrupt contractors who would reward them with bribes. Among others, Khan and Alexander worked with Babb on a scheme to use EyakTek as a vehicle for channeling contracts awarded by the Army Corps of Engineers. EyakTek, in turn, hired Nova Datacom and other sub-contractors that submitted fraudulently inflated or fictitious quotes for equipment and services. As directed by Khan and Alexander, the sub-contractors kicked back a significant portion of the payments to them, as bribes for keeping the money flowing their way from the Army Corps of Engineers. Khan and the others attempted to obtain more than $30 million through the bribery scheme primarily through the submission of fraudulently inflated invoices to the government, according to the statement of offense. In most cases, the corrupt companies provided the equipment and services legitimately included in the contracts, but also billed for inflated and fictitious equipment and services. Khan referred to the fraudulently inflated amounts as “overhead.” Khan, Alexander, and the contractors agreed to split the “overhead.” Khan admitted obtaining, directly and indirectly, more than $12 million from Nova Datacom; Alpha Technology Group; Big Surf Construction; Core Technology LLC and Enterprise Technical Solutions, Inc.; and Ananke LLC. He also admitted that, at the time of his arrest, he was owed more than $14 million in additional “overhead” payments from the contractors. * * * Alexander, Babb, Corbett, McKinney, and Miller have been sentenced to prison terms for their roles in the scheme. Hallas, Lee Khan, and Nazim Khan also were sentenced to prison. Alex Cho, Min Jung Cho, Kwon, Park, Lee, and Johnson are awaiting sentencing. In the overall investigation, to date, the United States has seized for forfeiture or recovered approximately $7.5 million in bank account funds, cash, and repayments and 20 real properties, eight luxury cars, and multiple pieces of fine jewelry. In announcing the sentence, U.S. Attorney Machen, Assistant Director in Charge Parlave, Special Agent in Charge Kelly, Inspector General Gustafson, Special Agent in Charge Craig, and Director Robey thanked those who investigated the case from the FBI’s Washington Field Office; the Office of the Inspector General for the Small Business Administration; the Department of Defense’s Defense Criminal Investigative Service; the Defense Contract Audit Agency; the Washington Field Office of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation; and the Army Criminal Investigation Command. They also expressed thanks to the U.S. Marshals Service for its assistance on the forfeiture matter. They also praised the efforts of those who worked on the case from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, including Assistant U.S. Attorneys Michael K. Atkinson, Bryan Seeley, and James Smith of the Fraud and Public Corruption Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Anthony Saler of the Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section. Finally, they expressed thanks for assistance provided by Stephanie Brooker, former chief of the office’s Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section; former Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher Dana; Forensic Accountant Maria Boodoo; Paralegal Specialists Tasha Harris, Lenisse Edloe, Shanna Hays, Taryn McLaughlin, Christopher Samson, and Nicole Wattelet; and Legal Assistants Krishawn Graham and Jessica McCormick.
corruption ALBUQUERQUE—Bradley G. Christiansen, 47, of Albuquerque, New Mexico, pleaded guilty last week to criminal charges arising out of his role in a conspiracy to solicit and accept kickbacks in return for favorable treatment in awarding subcontracts relating to wartime rebuilding projects in Iraq and his efforts to evade federal taxes on the money and assets he received as kickbacks. Christiansen’s guilty plea was announced by U.S. Attorney Kenneth J. Gonzales; Janice M. Flores, Special Agent in Charge of the Southwest Field Office of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS); Carol K.O. Lee, Special Agent in Charge of the Albuquerque Division of the FBI; Dawn Mertz, Special Agent in Charge of the Phoenix Field Office of IRS Criminal Investigation; and Stuart W. Bowen, Jr., Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction (SIGIR). Christiansen, together with Neal Kasper, 63, and Tiffany White, 46, of Cibolo, Texas, all former officers of a New Mexico-based defense contractor, and four foreign nationals, was charged with conspiracy to defraud the United States of more than $5 million through wire fraud in a 91-count indictment filed in February 2012. The indictment also charged the seven defendants with 74 substantive wire fraud offenses and with offering and receiving illegal kickbacks. It also charged Christiansen, Kasper, White, and Sara Christiansen, 48, with conspiracy to launder money and 11 substantive money laundering offenses and Christiansen with three counts of tax evasion. According to the indictment, during the Iraqi war and continuing through 2011, the United States funded numerous construction and rebuilding projects in Iraq and Jordan, including contracts administered by the United States Air Force Center for Engineering and the Environment (AFCEE). Laguna Construction Company Inc. (LCC), a minority disadvantaged business wholly owned by the Pueblo of Laguna, successfully bid and was awarded multiple contracts, including AFCEE contracts, for wartime reconstruction and rebuilding projects in Iraq and Jordan. From 2003 through 2009, LCC administered more than $350 million of Iraqi and Jordanian reconstruction contracts. LCC was required to award subcontracts to foreign companies by generating requests for proposals and soliciting independent subcontract bids from qualified foreign companies. All subcontract bids were required to be independently prepared by the subcontractors without collusion from LCC, and LCC was required objectively to evaluate the bids and to award the subcontracts to the lowest qualified bidders. LCC and its personnel were prohibited from accepting anything of value, whether gifts, bribes, or kickbacks, from the bidders. According to the indictment, from January 2004 through February 2009, Kasper, Christiansen, and White, who were officers and employees of LCC but not members of the Pueblo of Laguna, conspired with the four foreign nationals to defraud the United States of more than $5 million. They also allegedly conspired to launder the illegal kickbacks they received from the foreign nationals to conceal the unlawful nature of the proceeds. During his plea hearing on July 2, 2013, Christiansen entered a guilty plea to a felony information charging him with conspiracy to provide, solicit, and accept kickbacks. He also pleaded guilty to counts 76 and 91 of the indictment, charging him with solicitation and receipt of kickbacks and tax evasion, respectively. In his plea agreement, Christiansen acknowledged that AFCEE awarded two prime contracts to LCC relating to United States’ reconstruction efforts in Iraq, which required LCC to serve as a prime contractor and provide construction management services in response to task orders from AFCEE. From 2003 through 2009, LCC received and administered approximately $397 million through the two contracts which contemplated that LCC would award work to subcontractors to complete reconstruction projects. Christiansen was hired as a LCC division manager in 2002 by Kasper, who was then president of LCC, and becoming LCC’s operations manager and vice president of operations in 2005. In that capacity, he oversaw all LCC Iraq reconstruction projects under the supervision of Kasper, who was in charge of all of LCC’s construction operations, including those involving wartime reconstruction efforts in Iraq and Jordan. According to the plea agreement, beginning in December 2004, Christiansen, Kasper, White, and others sought and obtained payments for task orders under the prime contracts under false pretenses by repeatedly certified that all subcontracts were awarded pursuant to competitive bidding procedures when in fact they were accepting kickbacks from subcontractors in return for awarding subcontracts to them. Specifically, Christiansen admitted that, from December 2004 through February 2009, Kasper, White, he, and others conspired with the four foreign nationals to defraud the United States by soliciting and accepting kickbacks from the foreign nationals in return for awarding them subcontracts. Christiansen admitted accepting numerous kickbacks from the foreign nationals and asserted that he had personal knowledge of Kasper accepting numerous kickbacks from the foreign nationals and directing them to send money to White. Christiansen admitted receiving his first kickback in December 2004, through Kasper, who had received a $20,000 kickback and shared half with Christiansen. According to Christiansen, from January 2005 through February 2009, Kasper and he received numerous kickbacks from the foreign nationals, which they split 50/50. In addition to approximately $360,000 in monetary kickbacks, Christiansen also admitting to receiving a 2006 Porsche Cayman valued at $65,163, a Ford GT350 Shelby valued at $290,000, and several watches valued at an aggregate of $103,800 as kickbacks from the foreign nationals. Christiansen also admitted that he willfully failed to declare the kickback payments and assets he received from the foreign nationals as personal income when filing his federal income tax returns in 2006, 2007, and 2008. As a result, Christiansen evaded approximately $389,413 in federal taxes. At sentencing, Christiansen faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison. The plea agreement also requires Christiansen to pay full restitution to the victims of his criminal conduct, including $389,413 in restitution to the IRS. The plea agreement also requires that Christiansen agree to the imposition of a money judgment against him in the amount of $1,687,310.84 and that he forfeit all assets derived from his criminal conduct, including his residence which was substantially remodeled with kickbacks from the foreign nationals. As required by the plea agreement, the United States has filed a motion to dismiss all charges against Sara Christiansen. “While our brave men and women in uniform viewed the Iraq War as an opportunity to serve their country and make sacrifices for it, Bradley Christiansen saw it as an opportunity to enrich himself at the expense of the American taxpayers,” said U.S. Attorney Kenneth J. Gonzales. “However, the Pueblo of Laguna and its people also were harmed by Mr. Christiansen’s crimes and the crimes allegedly committed by his codefendants. As a result of their criminal activities, the Laguna Construction Company, a company that was once one of the largest U.S. contractors in Iraq and Jordan, has been dissolved and has ceased doing business. While this prosecution cannot restore what the Pueblo of Laguna has lost, I hope the community can take comfort in knowing that there is a dedicated team of agents, investigators, and prosecutors who will make sure that those responsible are prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. I also want to thank Governor Richard Luarkie and the Pueblo of Laguna for their cooperation during the investigation of this case.” “The guilty plea in this matter demonstrates the federal government’s continuing resolve to ensure those who violate the law are brought to justice and held accountable for their actions and is an excellent example of cooperation amongst numerous law enforcement agencies, to include the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation, and the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction (SIGIR),” said Janice M. Flores, Special Agent in Charge of the DCIS Southwest Field Office. “Companies and individuals who do business with the federal government are held to high standards of responsibility and accountability. When they choose to enrich themselves at the public’s expense, these entities can expect the FBI will come knocking on their door,” said Carol K.O. Lee, Special Agent in Charge of the Albuquerque Division of the FBI. “I would like to thank the FBI special agents, professional support staff, U.S. Attorney’s Office, and our law enforcement partners whose hard work made today’s plea and plea agreement possible. The FBI will continue to work closely with our partners to protect taxpayers by vigorously investigating companies and individuals who commit fraud both domestically and overseas.” “Mr. Christiansen has taken responsibility for his role in this complex fraud scheme involving kickbacks and other illegal activity,” said Dawn Mertz , Special Agent in Charge of the Phoenix Field Office of IRS Criminal Investigation. “He defrauded the taxpayers of the United States by diverting government funds for his own benefit and also failed to report this income on his own tax returns.” Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction Stuart W. Bowen, Jr. said, “Bradley G. Christiansen’s defrauding of the American taxpayer through contract kickbacks and other illegal practices is made even more egregious by his use of a disadvantaged minority business to gain Iraq reconstruction contracts.” IG Bowen praised the team effort put forth not only by SIGIR but also the FBI, the DCIS, and IRS Criminal Investigation. Kasper and White have entered not guilty pleas to the indictment and are currently scheduled for trial on October 7, 2013. The four foreign nationals, Ramzi Snobar and Yacoub Snobar, citizens of Jordan; Mustapha Ahmad, a duel citizen of Lebanon and Great Britain; and Ali Al Aridhi, a citizen of Iraq, have not been arrested and are considered fugitives. The charges in the indictment against these six defendants are merely allegations, and the defendants are presumed innocent unless proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Mary L. Higgins, George C. Kraehe and Shana B. Long, and was investigated by the DCIS, the Albuquerque Division of the FBI, IRS Criminal Investigation, SIGIR, and the Defense Contract Audit Agency. Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen R. Kotz is handling the related forfeiture proceedings.
corruption A former employee of the Cuyahoga Heights School District was sentenced to more than 11 years in prison for the theft of more than $3.4 million from the district, said Steven M. Dettelbach, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio. Joseph M. Palazzo, age 31, of Independence, Ohio, previously pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit mail fraud, conspiracy to commit money laundering, and wire fraud. U.S. District Judge Benita Pearson sentenced Palazzo to 136 months in prison and ordered him to pay $3.4 million in restitution. “This defendant stole millions of dollars that were to be used to educate the children of the Cuyahoga Heights School District,” Dettelbach said. “Our office will continue to go after those who would abuse the public trust.” “This investigation uncovered a multi-million-dollar embezzlement scheme laced with a web of financial lies that left a local school district in financial peril,” said Denise Rocawich, Acting Special Agent in Charge, IRS-Criminal Investigation, Cincinnati Field Office. “Joseph Palazzo violated the trust that the citizens and students of Cuyahoga Heights had placed in him by funding his personal account with millions of their tax dollars,” said Stephen D. Anthony, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI’s Cleveland Office. “The investigators are to be commended for uncovering this enormous fraud.” Palazzo was employed by the Cuyahoga Heights School District as its Information Technology Director until February 2011. Palazzo was responsible for managing the district’s IT Department, which included purchasing hardware and software and making other IT expenditures to benefit the district and its students, according to court documents. Palazzo devised a scheme to divert millions of dollars of district funds to his personal use and the personal use of others. This scheme involved Palazzo submitting to the district for payment false invoices that purported to be for IT-related goods and services purchased from legitimate companies by the district’s IT Department to benefit the district. Palazzo represented that the invoices he submitted were legitimate, and he approved the false invoices himself or forged the signature of another in the approval section, according to court documents. However, these invoices were for services never performed, fictitious software and hardware, and software and hardware never received or already purchased by the district from another source. The companies named on the invoices did not supply such goods to or perform such services for the district and were nothing more than “shells,” according to court documents. Palazzo’s actions caused the district to issue checks to these shell vendor corporations, which were established and owned by others working with Palazzo. The shell vendor corporation owners, in turn, kept approximately half the stolen money themselves and funneled the remainder of the money back to Palazzo for his personal use, according to court documents. As a result of the conduct of Palazzo and his co-conspirators, the district was defrauded and sustained a total loss of at least $3,333,448, according to court documents. Palazzo also engaged in a second scheme to defraud the district. It involved Palazzo purchasing various personal electronic items, such as iPads, cameras, and televisions, from legitimate district vendors. Palazzo then altered the invoices from such purchases to falsely reflect that classroom items, such as digital microscopes, projectors, and laptops, had been purchased for the district and submitted those invoices to the district for payment. Upon receipt of these personal electronic items, Palazzo sold them to third-parties at a discounted price and kept the money from such sales for his own personal use, according to the information. As a result of the Palazzo’s conduct in the second scheme, the district was defrauded and sustained an additional loss of at least $76,214, according to the information. This case was investigated by special agents of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, both located in Cleveland, with the assistance of the State of Ohio Auditor’s Office, the Cuyahoga County Sheriff’s Office, and the United States Postal Inspection Service. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Rebecca Lutzko, Special Assistant United States Attorney Perry Mastrocola, and Assistant United States Attorney James L. Morford.
corruption CLARKSBURG, WV—The chief of the Clarksburg Police Department and one of his lieutenants have resigned in order to avoid being prosecuted for federal criminal charges. United States Attorney William J. Ihlenfeld, II announced today that former Chief Marshall Goff and former Lieutenant Tim Smith have quit the Clarksburg Police Department and thus will avoid being charged with civil rights violations and for making false statements to federal agents. The actions of Goff and Smith occurred after officers from their department responded to a report of an alleged domestic battery in Clarksburg in April 2013 involving a city councilman. Goff and Smith became involved in the response, and the actions that they took led to a separate investigation into their handling of the case. The resignations of Goff and Smith are effective immediately, and both men are barred from ever seeking or accepting employment as police officers again. Both men have also agreed to be cooperative and truthful in the ongoing investigation into the handling of the response to the alleged domestic battery. A charge has been filed in the underlying domestic battery case, and that matter is being handled in state court by a special prosecuting attorney. The case involving Goff and Smith was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the West Virginia State Police, BCI, both of which are members of the West Virginia Public Corruption Task Force. If the public has any information regarding this matter or other similar matters they ma ycall the public corruption hotline at 1-855-WVA-FEDS(1-855-982-3337) or send an e-mail to wvafeds@usdoj.gov.
corruption JACKSON, MS—Robert Nikita Shegog, 40, of Terry, Mississippi, pled guilty in U.S. District Court today to bribery, U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis and FBI Special Agent in Charge Daniel McMullen announced. Shegog admitted that, while employed as a narcotics detective with the Jackson Police Department in 2010, he advised a Hinds County criminal defendant that he would assist him in getting a sentence reduction on an outstanding drug charge if he would pay Shegog $45,000. Shegog will be sentenced by U.S. District Judge Henry T. Wingate on September 12, 2013, at 9:30 a.m. and faces a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Jerry Rushing.
corruption Irvin F. Hingle, a/k/a “Jiff,” Hingle, age 61, a resident of Belle Chasse, Louisiana, was sentenced today to 46 months’ imprisonment by U. S. District Judge Sarah R. Vance after he pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy, announced U. S. Attorney Dana J. Boente. In addition to the term of imprisonment, Judge Vance ordered that Hingle be placed on two years of supervised release following the term of imprisonment, pay a $10,000 fine, and a $100 special assessment. According to court documents, from approximately 1992 through 2011, Hingle was employed as the elected Sheriff of Plaquemines Parish, Louisiana. As the sheriff, Hingle was the chief law enforcement officer for Plaquemines Parish. In 2007, the Plaquemines Parish Sheriff’s Office entered into a contract with Benetech LLC (Benetech) to provide services relating to recovery from damages due to previous and future natural disasters. In early- to mid-2008, on two separate occasions, Hingle, as the sheriff, approved Benetech’s invoices and issued checks to Benetech in connection with work purportedly done under the 2007 contract. Within weeks of Hingle’s approvals, W. Aaron Bennett, the owner of Benetech, paid Hingle $10,000 in cash, on two separate occasions, intending to influence him in connection with the contract between Benetech and the Plaquemines Parish Sheriff’s Office. In addition, as the elected sheriff, Hingle was required to file annual campaign reports with the Louisiana Board of Ethics in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and to certify, among other things, information relating to campaign contributions and expenditures. According to court documents, in 2008, Hingle solicited campaign contributions from contributors and instead of expending those funds for campaign-related activities, Hingle expended them for personal use in violation of Louisiana campaign finance laws. Hingle and others in his campaign finalized the 2008 campaign finance report and mailed it to Baton Rouge, Louisiana, in February 2009, falsely listing over $100,000 in expenditures as campaign-related when, in fact, they were for personal use. The case was investigated by agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation Division. The case was prosecuted by Assistant U. S. Attorneys Matt Chester and Eileen Gleason.
corruption LAFAYETTE, LA—United States Attorney Stephanie A. Finley announced today that St. Landry Parish School Board member John Miller, 72, of Opelousas, Louisiana, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Richard T. Haik to one count of conspiracy to commit bribery. According to evidence presented at the guilty plea, Miller admitted that he and fellow St. Landry Parish School Board member Quincy Richard Sr., 51, of Opelousas, conspired to receive bribe money from school board superintendent candidate Joseph Cassimere in return for their support. During July, August, and September 2012, Miller admitted that he and Richard had a number of private meetings with Cassimere where they negotiated price and payment from Cassimere in exchange for their favorable individual votes as school board members in support of Cassimere’s candidacy for superintendent. At the same time the screening process for the superintendent position was ongoing and by the week of September 16, 2012, five applicants had been publicly named. The final vote was scheduled for September 26, 2012. The defendants met with Cassimere on September 24, 2012, at the Quarters Restaurant in Opelousas and received $5,000 each in return for their votes. They made it clear that Cassimere had also secured their services, efforts, influence, and due diligence to secure the votes of other members of the school board for Cassimere’s candidacy. Richard added that Cassimere could also recoup his $10,000 bribe by adding that amount to his salary request. Miller instructed Cassimere on how to make and justify a meritorious salary request above the amount listed for the superintendent’s salary as advertised. This conversation of September 24, 2012, had been under video and audio surveillance. After the defendants exited the restaurant, they were confronted by authorities who recovered the $5,000 payments. Miller was indicted on October 24, 2012. U.S. Attorney Finley stated, “This is a positive first step for the school board to move forward so they can take care of the educational work that needs to be addressed for the children and citizens of this community.” Miller faces a maximum penalty of five years in prison, a $250,000 fine, and three years of supervised release for conspiracy to commit bribery. A sentencing date has not been set. The Federal Bureau of Investigation-Alexandria Resident Agency conducted the investigation. Assistant U.S. Attorney Howard C. Parker is prosecuting the case.
corruption NEWARK, NJ—A Jersey City, New Jersey contractor admitted today that he bribed a Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) official so that two companies with which he was affiliated could obtain favorable treatment from the VA, U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman announced. Hitesh Desai, 42, of Jersey City, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Mary L. Cooper to an information charging him with one count of bribing a federal public official by promising to make $5,000 in corrupt payments in exchange for official action. According to documents filed in this case and statements made in court: Desai was a contractor who worked on various construction projects for the VA. In 2012, Desai became affiliated with two businesses that were applying to be placed on a VA list known as the Multiple Award Task Order Contract (MATOC). Certain lucrative VA construction projects were available only to contractors who were placed on the MATOC list. Between October 2012 and February 2013, Desai offered and promised to make a $5,000 bribe payment to an official who worked at the VA, whom Desai understood to be responsible for serving on a committee that would determine which contractors were placed on the MATOC list, in exchange for the official’s official assistance in placing the two businesses with which Desai was affiliated on the list. On October 18, 2012 and December 6, 2012, Desai made two cash payments, totaling $1,000, to the aforementioned official in exchange for the official’s official assistance in placing the two businesses with which he was affiliated on the VA’s MATOC list. The count to which Desai pleaded guilty carries a maximum potential penalty of 15 years in prison, a $250,000 fine, and twice the aggregate loss to victims or gain to the defendant or three times the amount of the bribe payments. Sentencing is scheduled for October 2, 2013. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the Department of Veterans Affairs, Office of Inspector General, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Jeffrey Hughes, and special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford for the investigation in this case. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Vikas Khanna of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division in Newark.
corruption Richard P. Molenaar, III, 47, a resident of Las Cruces, New Mexico, pled guilty today in before U.S. District Judge Martin L.C. Feldman to one count of with conspiracy to commit bribery, announced U.S. Attorney Dana J. Boente. According to court records, Molenaar was the owner of several maintenance/construction companies, including Ricky’s A/C Inc., Landmark Mechanical Contractors LLC, and Custom Carpentry Renovations LLC. From in or around 2008 through in or around 2011, Molenaar used these companies to bid on maintenance jobs at the Orleans Parish Sheriff’s Office (OPSO). Molenaar’s primary point of contact at the OPSO was its former director of Purchasing, John Sens. According to the factual basis, Molenaar, among others, including Sens, engaged in a rigged bidding process for various OPSO maintenance jobs. In particular, from 2007 through 2011, Molenaar would submit bids for OPSO work in the names of his respective companies but, with the knowledge and participation of, among others, Sens, he would also submit phony or fake bids for these same projects in the names of other local companies in an effort to give the appearance of a competitive bidding process. In many cases, the phony bids would intentionally be higher than the bids from Molenaar, and, consequently, Sens would award the work to Molenaar. In exchange for this rigged bidding process, according to court documents, Molenaar provided Sens with various things of value. For example, from 2007 through 2011, Molenaar provided approximately $30,000 in cash to Sens, as well as the digging and installation of a pool at a residence owned by Sens, at no cost to him. Molenaar faces a maximum penalty of five years’ imprisonment, three years’ supervised release, a $250,000 fine, and a $100 special assessment. Sentencing has been set for October 16, 2013, at 1:30 p.m. The case was being investigated by special agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Matt Chester and Jon Maestri.
corruption LITTLE ROCK—Patrick C. Harris, Attorney for the United States, acting under authority conferred by 28 U.S.C. § 515, and Federal Bureau of Investigation Special Agent in Charge Randall C. Coleman announced the sentencing of former State Representative Hudson Hallum, age 31, and his father, Kent Hallum, age 54, on a charge of conspiracy to commit election fraud. The Hallums were sentenced by United States District Judge Kristine G. Baker. Hudson Hallum was sentenced to three years’ probation with nine months of home confinement on electronic monitoring, fined $20,000, and ordered to perform 100 hours of community service. Kent Hallum was sentenced to three years’ probation with nine months’ home confinement on electronic monitoring and was ordered to pay a fine of $10,000. Kent was also sentenced to perform 100 hours of community service. During the period of home confinement for both Hudson and Kent, employment is excepted as well as other activities approved in advance by probation. “The activities of Mr. Hallum and his associates are very disappointing. It erodes the very basis for our democracy,” said Harris. “The United States Attorney’s Office considers protecting the integrity of the electoral process a priority for the people of Arkansas. Investigating and prosecuting voter fraud schemes such as this case are essential to restoring confidence in elected public officials.” “Today’s sentencings of a father and son for their roles in a voter fraud scheme demonstrate just how pervasive public corruption can be,” stated FBI Special Agent in Charge Randall C. Coleman. “My office will continue to aggressively investigate those public officials who choose to violate the trust of Arkansans by engaging in these corrupt schemes.” Both Hudson and Kent Hallum waived indictment and entered guilty pleas to a conspiracy charge in an information on September 5, 2012. In doing so, each acknowledged his participation in a conspiracy to bribe voters to influence absentee votes in the Arkansas District 54 primary, its runoff election, and the general election, all of which were held between February and July 2011. Hudson Hallum was a candidate in that election and won the District 54 House seat. Former West Memphis Police Officer Sam Malone, age 32, and former West Memphis City Councilman Phillip Wayne Carter, age 44, who also pled guilty to the conspiracy charge, were sentenced in hearings held May 21 and May 22, 2013. Malone was sentenced to three years’ probation, the first 7.2 months of which will be spent on home confinement with electronic monitoring, plus 100 hours of community service. Malone will be restricted to his home while on confinement except for the hours of his employment. Carter was sentenced to three years’ probation, the first five months of which will be spent on home confinement with electronic monitoring; a $2,500 fine; and 100 hours of community service. Carter will also be restricted to his home while on confinement except for the hours of his employment. According to the felony information to which the defendants pled guilty, Hudson Hallum was elected to House Seat 54 on July 12, 2011. Kent Hallum managed the finances and certain logistics of his son’s campaign for the District 54 seat, including the campaign’s effort to solicit and secure votes cast by absentee ballot. Hudson Hallum hired Carter, who was both a West Memphis City councilman and a Crittenden County Juvenile Probation officer, to implement the Hallum campaign’s absentee ballot strategy. Malone, who was a West Memphis Police officer, assisted Carter in implementing the Hallum campaign’s absentee ballot strategy. Hudson Hallum, along with others, declared his candidacy as a Democrat in the special primary election for House Seat 54, which took place on April 20, 2011. Because neither Hudson Hallum nor any other Democratic candidate obtained the required majority of votes in the special primary election, a special primary runoff election took place on May 10, 2011. Hudson Hallum was certified as the winner in the special primary runoff by eight votes. Hudson Hallum also won the special general election held on July 12, 2011, and was subsequently certified as the winner of the House District 54 special election. At the time of the elections, District 54 included West Memphis, Marion, Earle, and Turrell, Arkansas, as well as other rural areas of Crittenden County. Hudson Hallum and Kent Hallum tasked Carter, Malone, and others with identifying absentee ballot voters within District 54; obtaining and distributing absentee ballot applications to particular voters; determining when absentee ballots were mailed to absentee voters by the Crittenden County Clerk’s Office; and making contact with recipients of absentee ballots to assist those voters in completing the ballots. Once such absentee ballots were completed, the absentee voters typically placed their ballots in unsealed envelopes, which were retrieved by Carter, Malone, and others and then subsequently delivered to either Hudson Hallum or Kent Hallum for inspection to ensure that the absentee ballot votes had been cast for Hudson Hallum. After inspection by Hudson Hallum or Kent Hallum, the absentee ballots that contained votes for Hudson Hallum were sealed and mailed to the Crittenden County Clerk’s Office. If a ballot contained a vote for Hudson Hallum’s opponent, it was destroyed. At the plea hearing held September 5, 2012, the defendants admitted that certain absentee ballot voters received things of value in exchange for their votes being cast for Hudson Hallum. For example, in or about May 2011, Carter and Malone provided a chicken dinner to an individual in exchange for the absentee ballot votes of that individual and one other individual. Further, on or about May 4, 2011, Carter contacted Hudson Hallum about a family of eight who had requested a “family meal” in exchange for their absentee ballot votes being cast in favor of Hudson Hallum. Carter requested $20 from Hudson Hallum to pay for the food, to which request Hudson Hallum agreed. In addition, on or about May 5, 2011, Carter notified Hudson Hallum that some absentee ballot voters were “holding on” to their absentee ballots because they needed money for food. Hudson Hallum instructed Carter to obtain money for the absentee voters from Kent Hallum. Hudson Hallum further told Carter that $20 to $40 was too much to pay for one vote, but that this amount was acceptable to pay for the votes of multiple members of a household. On that same date, Hudson Hallum also told Carter, “We need to use that black limo and buy a couple of cases of some cheap vodka and whiskey to get people to vote.” Two days later, Carter and Kent Hallum spoke with an individual in Memphis, Tennessee, about getting a discounted price for the purchase of 100 half-pints of vodka for the campaign. The investigation was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Arkansas State Police.
corruption MONTGOMERY, AL—Greg Barge, 45 years old, of Camden, Alabama, was arrested yesterday for attempting to possess with the intent to distribute cocaine powder, announced George L. Beck, Jr., United States Attorney for the Middle District of Alabama. According to the complaint filed in federal court, on April 10, 2013; May 7, 2013; and June 26, 2013, Barge transported a package that contained what he believed to be multi-kilograms of cocaine powder from Montgomery, Alabama to Camden, Alabama. The package actually contained a substance that appeared to be cocaine but was not cocaine. On each of those dates, Barge obtained the supposed kilograms of cocaine in Montgomery and transported them to Camden using his law enforcement vehicle and dressed in his sheriff’s deputy uniform. Barge was paid $800 on April 10, 2013, and $1,200 on May 7, 2013. On June 26, 2013, Barge was arrested in Camden after transporting the kilograms of fake cocaine from Montgomery to Camden. An arrest warrant and complaint merely allege that crimes have been committed, and the defendant is presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. If convicted, Barge faces a minimum sentence of five years in prison. He is also subject to fines and a period of supervised release if convicted. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, with assistance from the Alabama Alcoholic Beverage Control Board and the Alabama Department of Public Safety. Assistant United States Attorney Clark Morris is prosecuting the case.
corruption NEWARK, NJ—A former claims manager for the New Jersey Turnpike Authority was arrested today for allegedly stealing more than $120,000 from the authority, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. Gerardo Blasi, 54, of Clifton, New Jersey, was arrested by special agents of the FBI and charged by complaint with mail fraud and defrauding a state agency that receives federal funds. He is scheduled to make his initial appearance later today before U.S. Magistrate Judge Cathy L. Waldor in Newark federal court. According to the complaint: Blasi was a claims manager at the New Jersey Turnpike Authority, responsible for negotiating and collecting payments from insurance companies whose insured drivers caused damage to the Turnpike. From April 2011 to June 2013, Blasi allegedly stole more than $120,000 from the authority in several ways, including instructing insurance companies to issue checks payable to fraudulent repair companies. When the checks were mailed to Blasi at the authority, he would arrange to have them cashed and keep a portion of the money for himself. The fraud count with which Blasi is charged carries a maximum potential penalty of up to 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. The theft from a state agency count is punishable by a maximum potential penalty of up to 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford, with the investigation leading to today’s charges. He also thanked the New Jersey Turnpike Authority for its cooperation in the investigation. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney David L. Foster of the office’s Special Prosecutions Division in Newark. The charges and allegations contained in the complaint are merely accusations, and the defendant is considered innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption HOUSTON—Four parole officers from two Texas Department of Criminal Justice (TDCJ) offices in Houston have been indicted for accepting payoffs from parolees, United States Attorney Kenneth Magidson announced today, along with FBI Special Agent in Charge Stephen L. Morris; Brad Livingston, TDCJ Executive Director; and Bruce Toney, Inspector General of TDCJ-Office of Inspector General (OIG). “Public officials suspected of corruption can undermine our trust and confidence in government and can tarnish virtually every aspect of American society,” said Morris. “Despite the fact that the vast majority of our country’s public officials are honest hard-working Americans who have dedicated their lives to serve the American people, there are unfortunately a small number who allegedly make decisions for the wrong reasons. The FBI will continue to pursue public corruption as a top priority and encourages anyone with information about potential wrongdoing by a public official to please contact the FBI.” April L. Carson, 35, of Missouri City, and Crystal M. Washington, aka Crystal Bureau, 52, of Houston, were employed at the TDCJ office located at 2410 Hamilton Street in Houston; while Darlene J. Muhammad, 42, and Ernie Rogers, 56, both of Houston, worked at the Houston TDCJ Parole Office at 8345 Telephone Road. The four were taken into custody today and are expected to make their initial appearances before U.S. Magistrate Judge George Hanks at 2:00 p.m. this afternoon. “These arrests are the result of an effective partnership with TDCJ-OIG and other law enforcement entities,” said Livingston. “We fully support their efforts to investigate, arrest, and ultimately prosecute employees that are suspected of breaking the law.” The indictment, unsealed today, indicates all the defendants are responsible for the supervision of inmates within the state of Texas. Included in this responsibility is the supervision of parolees who travel between states and the supervision of their activities to ensure they do not engage in criminal conduct. Each parole officer named in the indictment allegedly chose to accept money from a parolee in order to allow the parolee to continue his/her illegal narcotics trafficking and distribution activity. Specifically, the indictment alleges each officer accepted payoffs from parolees in the amount of $1,000 to $3,000 on at least one occasion in order to allow them to continue their criminal behavior. “The alleged actions of these employees can erode the public’s confidence and damage the integrity of parole officers across the state that perform their duties faithfully every day,” said Toney. “We are committed to rooting out suspected corruption within the criminal justice system.” If convicted, each faces up to 20 years’ imprisonment and a possible $250,000 fine. Anyone suspecting criminal activity or abuse within the TDCJ can make a report by calling the toll-free TDCJ waste/fraud abuse hotline at 1-866-372-8329. The operation was a combined public corruption task force effort conducted by the FBI, Texas Rangers, Houston Police Department and Office of Inspector General for the Texas Department of Criminal Justice. The case is being prosecuted by Southern District of Texas with the assistance of the Harris County District Attorney’s Office. An indictment is a formal accusation of criminal conduct, not evidence. A defendant is presumed innocent unless convicted through due process of law.
corruption MCALLEN, TX—Another man has been convicted in relation to the investigation involving the now defunct Panama Unit, United States Attorney Kenneth Magidson announced today. Fabian Rodriguez, 28, of Edinburg, pleaded guilty to one count of conspiring to possess with the intent to distribute more than five kilograms of cocaine and more than 500 grams of methamphetamine. Rodriguez was a former Hidalgo County Sheriff’s deputy who was a member of the former Panama Unit—a drug task force operated by the Hidalgo County Sheriff’s Office. During 2011 and 2012, Rodriguez utilized his position as a law enforcement officer to traffic narcotics. Rodriguez admitted he used his law enforcement authority to steal narcotics that he and the others then sold to local drug dealers. Rodriguez faces a minimum of 10 years and up to life in prison along with a potential fine up to $10 million. Sentencing has been set for September 10, 2013. The investigation leading to the charges was conducted by the Drug Enforcement Administration, Homeland Security Investigations, FBI, Homeland Security Investigations-Office of Professional Responsibility, and the Texas Department of Public Safety. Assistant United States Attorneys James Sturgis and Anibal Alaniz are prosecuting the case.
corruption SHERMAN, TX—Two Collin County, Texas men, including the former mayor of the city of Melissa, have been sentenced to federal prison in connection with a bribery scheme in the Eastern District of Texas, announced U.S. Attorney John M. Bales. David E. Dorman, 66, of Melissa, Texas, pleaded guilty on January 7, 2013, to mail fraud and was sentenced to 33 months in federal prison and three years of supervised release today by U.S. District Judge Marcia Crone. Dorman was also ordered to submit to forfeiture of $30,000. John Christie, 65, of Frisco, Texas, pleaded guilty on January 4, 2013, to misprision of a felony and was sentenced to six months in federal prison, to be followed by one year of supervised release, today by Judge Crone. Christie was also ordered to relinquish his real estate license for the duration of his sentence and term of supervised release and was fined $5,000. According to information presented in court, in 2007, Dorman, then mayor of the city of Melissa, solicited a $70,000 bribe from Christie in exchange for arranging for the city of Melissa to annex a portion of land from the city of McKinney, Texas, in order for Christie to develop and sell the land to potential customers. Based on a letter from Dorman, the cities of Melissa and McKinney approved the annexation, and, in exchange, Christie made one $10,000 cash payment and two $10,000 payments by check to Dorman. The men were initially named in an indictment returned by a federal grand jury on September 12, 2012. “Public officials are held to the highest standard of conduct and owe their communities honest, faithful service,” said U.S. Attorney Bales. “David Dorman breached the trust that he held, and we hold him, as we would hold any corrupt public official, fully accountable for his crime.” This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Shamoil T. Shipchandler.
corruption A former Highland Park Police officer was sentenced to prison today for conspiring with three other police officers to commit extortion and protect a shipment of cocaine, U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade announced today. McQuade was joined in the announcement by FBI Special Agent in Charge Robert D. Foley, III. During a hearing before U.S. District Judge Avern Cohn, Craig Clayton, 55, of Highland Park, Michigan, was sentenced to 12 months and one day in prison and two years of supervised release based on his plea of guilty to conspiring to commit extortion. Clayton had agreed with three other Highland Park Police officers to take money in exchange for delivering a four-kilogram shipment of cocaine. Clayton brought his badge and gun to protect the shipment, and Clayton accepted $1,500 in cash from an FBI informant for his work. United States Attorney McQuade said, “The court’s sentence today sends a strong message that police officers who take bribes will go to prison and that no one is above the law.” FBI Special Agent in Charge Foley stated, “Police officers who swear an oath to serve and protect are held to the highest standards of ethics and integrity. The FBI is committed to ensuring those standards are maintained and, in cases of abuse, will pursue and prosecute those responsible.” Thus far in the investigation, three of the four Highland Park Police officers charged have pleaded guilty and been convicted. Former Officer Shawn Williams pleaded guilty on May 2, 2013, to conspiring to commit extortion, and former officer Anthony Bynum pleaded guilty on May 23, 2013, to conspiring to commit extortion and bribery. The case was investigated by agents of the FBI. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney David A. Gardey.
corruption SANTA ANA, CA—An immigration service officer with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) was indicted today on federal charges that allege she took thousands of dollars in bribes from three immigrants who were seeking either citizenship or lawful permanent resident status in the United States. Mai Nhu Nguyen, 47, of Irvine, was charged in a three-count indictment returned by a federal grand jury. The indictment specifically alleges three counts of solicitation and receipt of a bribe by a public official. Nguyen was arrested on June 6 after allegedly accepting a $2,200 bribe from an immigrant who was seeking United States citizenship. In addition to the bribe earlier this month, the indictment alleges that Nguyen solicited and took bribes from immigrants in 2011. In one case, Nguyen is accused of taking $1,000 from an immigrant seeking a “green card” and 200 egg rolls from an immigrant seeking citizenship. Nguyen, who has worked at USCIS’s Santa Ana office for approximately eight years, is an immigration service officer with the power to approve or deny applications for immigration benefits that are submitted by immigrants. Nguyen is scheduled to be arraigned on the indictment on July 1 in United States District Court in Santa Ana. An indictment contains allegations that a defendant has committed a crime. Every defendant is presumed to be innocent until proven guilty in court. Each count of bribery by a public official carries a statutory maximum penalty of 15 years in federal prison. After being arrested, prosecutors filed a criminal complaint against Nguyen, who made her initial court appearance before a United States Magistrate Judge on June 7. Nguyen was released on a $20,000 bond and was ordered to appear for the arraignment next month. The case against Nguyen is the product of an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Department of Homeland Security Office of Inspector General.
corruption Former Pontiac City Councilman Everett Seay was sentenced today to 26 months in prison for accepting bribes, announced United States Attorney Barbara L. McQuade. Joining in the announcement was Robert D. Foley, III, Special Agent in Charge of the Detroit Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Seay, 61, of Pontiac, was also ordered to forfeit $10,800 to the United States. The sentence was imposed by in U.S. District Judge Bernard A. Friedman. According to court documents, beginning in May 2008, Everett Seay met repeatedly with “J.B.,” a person who purported to be a drug dealer from Chicago who was seeking the assistance of members of the Pontiac City Council to obtain a “regulated use” ordinance to open a business to buy and sell gold for the purpose of laundering drug proceeds. Unknown to Seay, J.B. was actually an FBI agent acting in an undercover capacity. During several meetings, Seay solicited and accepted bribe payments from J.B. for his assistance in getting the ordinance passed. Between July and December 2008, Seay received $10,800 in bribe payments from J.B. United States Attorney Barbara L. McQuade said, “Public officials who take bribes not only betray the people they serve, but they also erode trust in government.” Special Agent in Charge Robert D. Foley stated, “Those who are fortunate enough to serve in positions of public trust are expected to act with honesty and integrity at all times. The FBI is committed to holding individuals accountable for acts of bribery and other abuses.” The case was investigated by agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Sheldon Light.
corruption MONROE, LA—United States Attorney Stephanie A. Finley announced today that Donna Jean Remides, 51, of Winnsboro, Louisiana, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Robert G. James to lying on loan applications in order to receive loans used to hide the theft of $640,000 from a federally funded non-profit. A trial started Monday but ended today as the prosecution was calling witnesses to testify. Remides decided to plead guilty to the charge of making a false statement to a bank instead of continuing with the trial. Witness testimony and documents admitted at trial and the guilty plea revealed that Remides was employed as a project coordinator by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) through the Natural Resource Conservation Service (NRCS) to work for the non-profit Northeast Delta Resource Conservation and Development Council (NDRC&DC) in Winnsboro. From January 2001 to December 2010, Remides used the NDRC&DC accounts to pay herself $640,000 without authorization from the NDRC&DC. She wrote herself and her private business checks over the nearly 10-year period. She also obtained loans in the name of the council to cover the thefts. Loan documents were filled out stating that the council members had authorized loans at meetings when, in fact, they had not. Remides faces 30 years in prison, a $1 million fine, and five years of supervised release for one count of making a false statement to a bank. Sentencing has been set for October 7, 2013. The USDA; Office of Inspector General in Jackson, Mississippi; and the Federal Bureau of Investigation investigated the case. Assistant U.S. Attorney Cytheria D. Jernigan is prosecuting the case.
corruption A long-serving Chicago Police Department (CPD) sergeant was arrested this morning by FBI agents for allegedly attempting to extort a local liquor store worker. The arrest and charge were announced today by Cory B. Nelson, Special Agent in Charge of the Chicago Field Office of the FBI, and Gary S. Shapiro, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois. Ray M. Ramirez, 49, of the 900 block of North Wood Street in Chicago, who is assigned to the 12th Chicago Police District, was charged in a criminal complaint filed this morning in U.S. District Court in Chicago with one count of attempted extortion under color of official right, a felony offense. According to the complaint, the liquor store worker notified the FBI that Ramirez had on several occasions taken items from the store without paying, made demands of various store employees for money, and offered to sell police reports and other information to the store worker. The complaint further alleges that Ramirez made offers to speak to the local alderman on behalf of the store worker in exchange for money. The complaint describes a series of exchanges between the store worker and Ramirez in April and May of this year in which the store worker, at the direction of the FBI and as a ruse, requested criminal background information on a purported new store employee and a license plate check in exchange for money. The complaint further states that Ramirez conducted both of the requested inquiries and that he received $200 upon providing the results of each of the inquiries to the store worker. Ramirez appeared this afternoon before U.S. Magistrate Judge Maria Valdez, at which time he was formally charged. He was released on his own recognizance pending his next court appearance, which is scheduled to take place June 28th at 3:00 p.m. Mr. Nelson thanked the CPD’s Bureau of Internal Affairs for valuable cooperation provided during the course of the investigation and for assistance with today’s arrest. If convicted of the charge filed against him, Ramirez faces a possible maximum sentence of 20 years in prison. The public is reminded that a complaint is not evidence of guilt and that all defendants in a criminal case are presumed innocent until proven guilty in a court of law.
corruption NEWARK, NJ—A Monmouth County, New Jersey man admitted today to conspiring to collect a debt using extortionate means, U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman announced. John Balsamo, 49, of West Long Branch, New Jersey, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Katharine S. Hayden to an indictment charging him with using threats of violence and economic harm to collect a debt from the victim, an Ocean County, New Jersey construction contractor. According to documents filed in this case and statements made in court: Balsamo and conspirators Timothy Kelly, 37, of Jersey City, New Jersey, and Robert C. Bantang, Jr., 44, of Oceanport, New Jersey, used extortionate means in order to collect $50,000 the contractor owed to Kelly from 2009. The conspirators made the victim believe that the money he had borrowed from Kelly was owed to the “Old Man,” a member of organized crime who would cause physical harm to the victim if the debt was not paid. Balsamo also displayed a key to a construction site where the victim was working in Brick, New Jersey, and warned that the key could be used to gain access to and cause damage to the site, due to the victim’s failure to fully repay the debt. Balsamo and Kelly sent Bantang to the construction site on three occasions to deliver threats purportedly on behalf of the Old Man. On March 24, 2011, Balsamo and Kelly went to the Brick construction site, which was now a completed restaurant, to confront the victim. Kelly told the victim that if he had brought his “boys” that it would have gotten “done right in here, right in this place, right like this, in front of everybody...and your wife gets it too.” Kelly also told the victim that he deserved “a beatin’ just out of f-—kin’ principle.” Balsamo warned that the Old Man wanted to “beat the s—t” out of the restaurant owner due to the victim’s failure to repay the debt, which Balsamo and Kelly now stated had grown to $70,000. Balsamo also advised the victim that the Old Man has been “promoted,” implying that the Old Man now possessed a higher position in organized crime. During the course of the conspiracy, Balsamo received a Rolex watch and $2,500 in cash from the victim towards payment of the debt. Kelly and Bantang previously pleaded guilty in February 2012 to conspiring to collect a debt from the victim using extortionate means, before U.S. District Judge Katharine S. Hayden. The two men are scheduled for sentencing on September 10, 2013. Balsamo faces a maximum potential penalty per count of 20 years in prison and a fine of $250,000. Sentencing is scheduled for October 8, 2013. Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford in Newark, and special agents of the New Jersey State Commission of Investigation, under the direction of Executive Director Philip James Degnan, for the investigation leading to today’s guilty plea. The government is represented by Senior Litigation Counsel Leslie F. Schwartz of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Economic Crime Unit in Newark.
corruption CHARLOTTE, NC—The former police chief for the city of Cherryville has been charged with one count of program embezzlement, announced Anne M. Tompkins, U.S. Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina. Woodrow “Woody” Paul Burgess, 60, of Cherryville, North Carolina, has agreed to plead guilty to the charge. John A. Strong, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Charlotte Division, and Greg McLeod, Director of the State Bureau of Investigation (North Carolina-SBI) join U.S. Attorney Tompkins in making today’s announcement. According to the criminal bill of information and plea agreement filed today in U.S. District Court, Burgess was the chief of police for the city of Cherryville until his retirement in October 2012. During the relevant time period, Bonny Alexander was Cherryville’s finance director and had authority to process payroll payments to Cherryville employees, direct payments for city expenses, and issue checks on behalf of the city. According to court records and the filed plea agreement, Burgess embezzled and caused Alexander to embezzle approximately $11,048 of the city’s funds. Court records show that beginning in January 2007 through November 2008, Burgess instructed Alexander to issue approximately nine Cherryville city checks payable to The Great Outdoors Inc. for the purchase of firearms for Burgess’ personal use. According to the charging document, Burgess told Alexander that the checks and the expenditure of the city’s funds for personal use had been authorized as a “cash-out” for “compensatory time.” Court records indicate that Alexander issued the checks as requested by Burgess and placed entries in the city’s accounting records that the expenditures were for a certain amount of “sick time” or “comp time” due to “Woody.” According to court documents, Burgess was aware that he was not entitled to cash payments for sick or vacation leave or compensatory time. In addition, Burgess knew that no hours were deducted from his sick or vacation leave balances for the city’s purchase of guns for his personal use. The bill of information contains a notice of forfeiture, which gives notice that the defendant must forfeit to the United States all property and currency involved in the offense charged in the charging document and all property and currency that are proceeds of such offense, including approximately $8,490 in cash and three firearms seized during the course of the investigation. “Woody Burgess was sworn to uphold the law but instead thought he was above the law. While prosecuting a law enforcement officer is always difficult, my office will not allow the likes of Woody Burgess to dishonor the uniform proudly worn by all other Cherryville police officers who are dedicated to serving and protecting their community,” said U.S. Attorney Tompkins. “It is both disappointing and disheartening to learn a senior law enforcement officer took advantage of his trusted position for his own profit. Public corruption is the number one criminal priority of the FBI, and we will continue to work aggressively to hold public officials of all levels accountable, especially those who erode the public’s trust in those who have sworn to protect and serve others,” said Special Agent in Charge John A. Strong, of the FBI in Charlotte. “Our agents are dedicated to finding the truth and bringing criminals to justice, and this case is an excellent example of the work that they do,” said SBI Director Greg McLeod. “We’ll continue our efforts to solve crime, root out public corruption, and protect the people of North Carolina.” Burgess has agreed to plead guilty to one count of program embezzlement, which carries a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison, a $250,000 fine, or both. Burgess’ initial appearance and plea hearing have been set for Tuesday, June 25, 2013, at 2:00 p.m. According to the filed plea agreement, Burgess has also agreed to pay full restitution, the amount of which will be determined by the court at sentencing. In January 2013, Alexander pleaded guilty to five counts of program embezzlement for stealing over $435,000 from the city of Cherryville. She faces a maximum term of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine per count. A sentencing date for Alexander has not been set yet. The investigation is handled by the FBI and SBI. The prosecution is handled by Michael Savage of the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Charlotte.
corruption The United States Attorney’s Office announced that during a federal court session in Great Falls on June 20, 2013, before U.S. District Judge Dana L. Christensen, Gayle Patrick Skunkcap, Jr., age 42; Jessie Jay St. Goddard, age 50; and Woodrow Jay Wells, age 45, residents of Browning, Montana, were each sentenced to a term of: Probation: three years Special assessment: $200 Restitution: $56,625 They were sentenced in connection with their guilty pleas to violating the Lacey Act (illegal sale of tribal wildlife) and theft from a tribal government receiving federal funding. In an Offer of Proof filed by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Carl E. Rostad and Ryan G. Weldon, the government stated it would have proved the following at trial: All wildlife on the Blackfeet Indian Reservation is owned by the Blackfeet Indian Tribe. In managing such wildlife, hunting is allowed. Hunting by non-members on the Blackfeet Indian Reservation is a highly regulated activity. The 2010 and 2011 Blackfeet Regulations set forth the number of tags that may be given to non-members and the price of payment required for each tag. These tags are required, are limited in number, and are highly lucrative. There are only between five and 10 hunting licenses for each big-game species available to non-tribal members each year, with each license costing between $1,500 and $12,000, depending on the animal. Skunkcap, Jr., was the director of the Blackfeet Fish and Wildlife Department, and St. Goddard and Wells were Tribal Councilmen on the Blackfeet Tribal Business Council. In 2010 and 2011, the Blackfeet Fish and Wildlife Department received federal funding in excess of $220,000, each year. Between 2010 and 2011, Skunkcap, St. Goddard, and Wells held four big-game hunts for country musicians participating in an outdoors television show on the Blackfeet Indian Reservation without obtaining the limited and expensive hunting licenses for non-tribal members to shoot elk, moose, deer, and a black bear. They also used tribal funds and personnel to outfit and guide the musicians, television show hosts, and a fly fishing expert. Michael W. Cotter, United States Attorney for Montana said, “These defendants were public officials of the Blackfeet Tribe and leaders in the community who used their positions to steal property from the Blackfeet Tribal Nation. Public corruption is a crime that will be prosecuted by the Montana United States Attorney’s Office whenever it occurs and wherever it is discovered. This prosecution is an example of great investigative collaboration between the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Blackfeet Internal Affairs Office.”
corruption CAMDEN, NJ—The chairman of the Woodland Park, New Jersey Democratic Committee admitted today that he bribed two individuals he thought were IRS officials so that he could eliminate his tax debt, U.S. Attorney Fishman announced. Michael Kazmark, 60, of Woodland Park, pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Jerome B. Simandle in Camden federal court to an information charging him with one count of bribing a federal public official in exchange for official action. He admitted making $18,500 in corrupt payments. According to documents filed in this case and statements made during Kazmark’s guilty plea proceeding: Kazmark failed to pay federal income taxes from 1997 through 2005. In 2010, Kazmark owed the IRS $98,046 in unpaid federal income taxes, interest, and penalties. On April 18, 2010, Kazmark made an application to the IRS for an offer in compromise, requesting that he pay $48,800 to the IRS in order to settle his entire federal tax debt. On October 5, 2010, Kazmark paid a $1,000 bribe to two individuals he thought were IRS officials in exchange for their official assistance in transferring his offer in compromise file to one of the officials so that the official could accept it. On November 23, 2010, Kazmark made a $17,500 bribe payment to the individuals in exchange for their official assistance in placing his federal tax liability in noncollectible status for two years and agreeing to accept Kazmark’s offer in compromise for the amount of the check that he had already paid to the IRS—$9,760—if he did not incur any additional federal tax liability for two years. The count to which Kazmark pleaded guilty is punishable by a maximum potential penalty of 15 years in prison, a $250,000 fine, twice the aggregate loss to victims or gain to the defendant, or three times the amount of the bribe payments. Sentencing is scheduled for September 28, 2013. U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Aaron T. Ford, and special agents of the U.S. Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Robert Geary, for the investigation leading to today’s guilty plea. The government is represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Vikas Khanna of the U.S. Attorney’s Office Special Prosecutions Division in Newark.
corruption SPRINGFIELD, MO—Tammy Dickinson, United States Attorney for the Western District of Missouri, announced that the former public administrator of Jasper County, Missouri was sentenced in federal court today for document fraud, which was part of a scheme in which she illegally obtained federal benefits for her public wards. Rita Frances Hunter, 60, of Joplin, Missouri, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Dean Whipple to 12 months and a day in federal prison without parole. The court also ordered Hunter to pay $120,000 in restitution to the Department of Health and Human Services. Hunter must report on August 1, 2013, to begin serving her prison sentence. “This elected official betrayed the public trust and defrauded the government,” Dickinson said. “The citizens of Jasper County deserve to have honest public servants who fulfill their civic obligations lawfully, and in this case, they deserved better.” Hunter, who pleaded guilty to document fraud on November 6, 2012, was the elected public administrator for Jasper County from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2008. Hunter admitted that her scheme involved a total fraud of $70,000 to $120,000. Hunter directed her employees to submit materially false Medicaid applications for wards of the state who were under the custody of the public administrator’s office. These applications falsely stated that the wards had assets below the $1,000 threshold to be eligible to receive Medicaid benefits, when in fact, the wards had more than $1,000 in assets. Hunter specifically pleaded guilty to directing her staff to prepare a fraudulent Medicaid eligibility statement for a ward identified only as T.V. Hunter knew the statement, which was submitted to Missouri Health Net on August 6, 2008, contained false information. The written statement in the document indicated that T.V. had a total bank account balance of $827.27, when, in fact, T.V. had funds totaling $6,919. This false statement was made on this document to ensure that T.V. would meet the monetary threshold (no more than $1,000) imposed by Medicaid, and was material to Medicaid’s determination that T.V. was eligible for Medicaid benefits. Hunter caused this statement to be stamped with her signature verifying that it was true, when, in fact, it was false. Hunter instructed her employees to fabricate T.V.’s bank statements to ensure T.V. would qualify for Medicaid benefits, when she was, in fact, not eligible. The court also considered additional criminal conduct in which Hunter engaged in calculating today’s sentence. This case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Randall D. Eggert. It was investigated by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the U.S. Social Security Administration, the FBI, the Missouri State Highway Patrol, and the Missouri Department of Social Services Legal Investigation Section. This news release, as well as additional information about the office of the United States Attorney for the Western District of Missouri, is available online at http://www.justice.gov/usao/mow/index.html.
corruption Anthony O. Calabrese, III was sentenced to nine years in prison and ordered to pay more than $200,000 for his role in a series of bribery schemes involving Jimmy Dimora, Frank Russo, J. Kevin Kelley, and others uncovered as part of the Cuyahoga County corruption investigation, federal law enforcement officials said. “Anthony Calabrese misused his status as an attorney to facilitate bribes and foster corruption,” said Stephen D. Anthony, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Cleveland Office. “Today’s sentence reflects the fact that Calabrese was deeply involved in a variety of bribery schemes involving a school district, a halfway house, and the infamous trip to Las Vegas, just to name a few.” “His criminal conduct spanned his entire legal career,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Antoinette Bacon said in court. Calabrese, 40, of Chagrin Falls, Ohio, previously pleaded guilty to 18 counts which detail improper payments of nearly $550,000. The counts include racketeering; conspiracy to commit mail fraud and honest services fraud; Hobbs Act conspiracy; bribery concerning programs receiving federal funds; conspiracy to commit mail fraud; and mail fraud. U.S. District Judge Sara Lioi sentenced Calabrese to 108 months in prison and ordered him to pay $132,041 in restitution—$120,970 to Cuyahoga County and $11,071 to Parma schools. Calabrese has already forfeited $74,450 The racketeering charge involves conduct that took place between 2001 and 2009 in which Calabrese gave things of value to public officials and their designees in return for public officials taking and promising to take official action that benefitted Calabrese, Law Firm 1 (where Calabrese was an associate and partner), their clients, and designees, according court documents. Specifically, Calabrese participated in a scheme in which he and Cuyahoga County employee J. Kevin Kelley helped obtain tax exempt status for the property leased by Alternatives Agency around January 2004, according to court documents. In September 2004, after a tax refund check was issued to Alternatives Agency for $144,216.26, Calabrese instructed Alternative Agency to issue a check to Business 45 for $72,000 and classify the expense as consulting, despite Calabrese knowing that Business 45 performed no consulting services for Alternatives Agency to justify the expense, according to the indictment. Business 45, in turn, issued checks payable to Calabrese for $31,500 and to J. Kevin Kelley Consulting LLC for $35,500. Business 45 kept the remaining $5,000, according to the indictment. In another scheme, Calabrese lobbied Kelley (a member of the Parma School Board) and other members of the Parma School Board in January 2005 to contract with Business 9 to serve as project manager for a renovation project. Business 9 was a construction company that specialized in stone and brick masonry and was a client of Law Firm 1, according to court documents. In September 2005, the Parma School Board, with Kelley voting in favor, awarded a contract worth $1.8 million to Business 9, according to court documents. Calabrese and Kelley arranged for Business 9 to hire The Eagle Group, a consulting company formed by Daniel P. Gallagher. In August 2009, Business 9 sent a check for $15,000 to Eagle. Gallagher then paid a portion of that money to Kelley and Kevin Payne, according to court documents. Other conduct detailed in court documents includes Calabrese, Kelley, Brian Schuman, former Cuyahoga County Auditor Frank P. Russo, and former Cuyahoga County Commissioner James C. Dimora conspiring to increase the funding for Alternatives Agency. In or around January 2008, Calabrese, who served as legal counsel for Alternatives Agency, instructed Schuman, an employee of Alternatives Agency, to increase Kelley’s monthly consulting fee by $2,000 for four months for the purpose of funding expenses associated with a Las Vegas trip for Dimora, Russo, and Public Employee 55, according to court documents. In or around 2003, Prudoff began receiving payments from Alternatives Agency on a monthly basis, purportedly for consulting work. When BE39 informed Calabrese that Alternatives Agency received no work product from Prudoff, Calabrese told BE39 that Prudoff was consulting on a Lorain expansion project, according to court documents. BE39 questioned why Alternatives Agency was paying Prudoff, since he was the community development director for Lorain and it would be within his job requirements to assist companies such as Alternatives Agency, who were interested in developing facilities in Lorain. Calabrese insisted that BE39 continue to cause Alternatives to pay Prudoff, according to court documents. Calabrese did not inform the Alternatives board about the payments for consultants on a Lorain expansion project and the board did not approve payments to any such consultant, according to court documents. In or around June 2005, Calabrese told BE39 that Prudoff had some issues arise and Prudoff’s monthly payment should be issued to Relative 2, who was related to Prudoff’s girlfriend, according to court documents. In or around July 2005, Calabrese and Prudoff assisted Relative 2 in forming Business 46. On or about July 25, 2005, Alternatives Agency began issuing checks to Business 46 for approximately $4,000 on a monthly basis, according to court documents. Prudoff provided favorable consideration to Calabrese and his designees on business matter unrelated to Alternatives Agency in return and in exchange for the consulting fees that Calabrese caused Prudoff and Business 46 to receive from Alternatives, according to court documents. In another case, Business 43 was incorporated in the state of Ohio in March 2005, and Calabrese’s relative (Relative 1) was the registered agent for the company. Calabrese caused Alternatives to engage Business 43’s services but concealed from Alternatives his relative’s relationship to Business 43 and did not disclose to them that Relative 1 performed little or no work for Alternatives to justify the fees paid, according to court documents. In or around 2002, Calabrese influence Alternatives to hire A.C. Sinagra and Associates. In January 2006, A.C. Sinagra and Associated entered into a contract setting a monthly consulting fee at approximately $1,500, according to court documents. In March 2006, Calabrese and Sinagra agreed that Calabrese would cause Alternatives to increase its payments to A.C. Sinagra and Associates, and Sinagra would use the additional funds to pay persons or entities identified by Calabrese in the amounts Calabrese designated, according to court documents. Calabrese first suggested Sinagra make consulting payments to Relative 1 through Business 43. He later asked Sinagra to pay Calabrese through Burlwood Holdings, an LLC formed in 2004 and controlled by Calabrese, according to court documents. Calabrese also asked Sinagra to pay Relative 2, and Sinagra agreed to both requests. Sinagra performed no legitimate work for Alternatives to justify the increase in his fee, according to court documents. In May 2006, Alternatives increased Sinagra’s monthly fee from $1,500 to approximately $6,000. In May 2006, A.C. Sinagra Company issued a check to Relative 2 for $2,000 and Berlwood Holdings [sic] for $2,000. This continued through November 2007, according to court documents. In sum, Calabrese caused Alternatives to make payments to Prudoff and Relative 2 between July 2003 and March 2006 totaling approximately $144,000, according to court documents. Calabrese caused Alternatives to make payments to Business 43 between March 2005 and March 2006 totaling approximately $12,950, according to court documents. Calabrese caused Alternatives to make payments to A.C. Sinagra and Associates between January 2002 and November 2007 totaling approximately $190,500, according to court documents. Calabrese caused Alternatives to make payments to J. Kevin Kelley Consulting between October 2004 and August 2008 totaling approximately $201,473, according to court documents. Regarding count 9, Relative 1’s brother was Attorney 6. Attorney 7 was Calabrese’s relative and formerly related to Relative 1. On or about February 2, 2009, Calabrese told BE39 that Calabrese and Attorney 7 had met with Attorney 6. Calabrese asked BE39 to meet with Attorney 6, according to the indictment. BE39 met with Attorney 6 on February 2, 2009. Attorney 6 told BE39 that Calabrese and Attorney 7 wanted Attorney 6 to meet with BE39 to go over the script, according to court documents. Attorney 6 instructed BE39 that if anyone questioned BE39 about Relative 1, BE39 should say that BE40 and BE39 hired Relative 1 to work out of her home to help with the Lorain expansion, which Calabrese and BE39 knew was not true, according to court documents. This case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Antoinette T. Bacon and Nancy L. Kelley. The investigation was conducted by the Cleveland Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Internal Revenue Service.
corruption The former director of the Cleveland VA Medical Center was indicted on 36 counts, accused of accepting bribes in return for influencing development projects and decisions involving the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, law enforcement officials said. William D. Montague, 61, of Brecksville, was charged with conspiracy to commit honest services mail fraud, bribery, money laundering, multiple counts of wire fraud, mail fraud, disclosing public contract information, and other charges. The indictment is part of the Cuyahoga County corruption investigation. “As a Veterans Affairs Medical Center Director, William Montague misled staff and misused his position to enrich himself and businesses pursuing contracts with the Veterans Administration,” said Stephen D. Anthony, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Cleveland Office. “The arrest of Montague reflects law enforcement’s continued dedication to root out corruption at any level.” “Violating the public trust for personal gain cannot be tolerated, particularly at the expense of our nation’s heroes,” said Gavin McClaren, United States Department of Veterans Affairs-Office of Inspector General, Resident Agent in Charge, Cleveland. The Louis Stokes Cleveland VA Medical Center was approximately the fifth largest in the country, annually serving about 95,000 veterans who lived in 24 counties in Northeast Ohio. Montague began working for the VA in 1975 and served as director of the Cleveland VA Medical Center from 1995 until his retirement in 2010, according to the indictment. The VA had been operating medical facilities in both Brecksville and the Wade Park neighborhood in Cleveland. In the early 2000s, the VA began exploring the feasibility of consolidating the facilities into one location, known as the VA Development Project. The combined facility would include a domiciliary, office space, and parking, according to the indictment. The VA selected Business 42 to develop and managed the VA Development Project. Michael Forlani was the sole member of Business 42, and he had multiple other business interests, including as president and part-owner of Doan Pyramid LLC, according to the indictment. Forlani is currently serving eight years in prison after pleading guilty to racketeering, bribery, and other charges. On or about January 1, 2010, Business 66 began operations, having purchased Doan’s assets. Business 66 operated out of Doan’s former office space and retained many Doan employees, according to the indictment. Montague solicited and accepted gifts, payments, and other things of value from Forlani and Business 66, including a consulting contract between Business 66 and House of Montague, a financial services company Montague started in 2008, according to the indictment. The indictment details numerous instances between 2007 and 2010 in which Montague took actions on behalf of Forlani or others. Those activities include helping expedite getting a bond rating from Standard & Poors and desired ratings, help getting desired legal opinions from the VA, help getting desired parking rates, and other activities. Montague retired from the VA on February 3, 2010, about a month after Business 66 began operations. On February 15, 2010, Business 66 issued a check to House of Montague for $2,750, the first of many approximately monthly checks. On December 29, 2010, Montague became a member of the Business 66 Board of Advisers, according to the indictment. From about February 15, 2010 through May 2012, Business 66 paid House of Montague $156,750, according to the indictment. In a different scheme, Montague entered into a consulting agreement with a company identified as Business 73, headquartered in Virginia. The company agreed to pay Montague $2,500 a day for a minimum of 24 days, between July 1, 2008 and July 1, 2009, while Montague was still employed by the VA, according to the indictment. Montague emphasized his ability to access key decision makers in the VA quickly and effectively as one of the reasons he could help Business 73 develop joint ventures and/or expand services provided by the VA. Montague told an official at Business 73 that he had consulted with a VA ethics panel and that he had authorization to do the consulting work as long as he took vacation time to perform the work. In fact, Montague had no such authorization, according to the indictment. The case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Antoinette T. Bacon and Nancy L. Kelley following an investigation by the FBI and United States Department of Veterans Affairs-Office of Inspector General. If convicted, the defendant’s sentence will be determined by the court after review of factors unique to this case, including the defendant’s prior criminal record (if any), the defendant’s role in the offenses, and the characteristics of the violations. In all cases, the sentences will not exceed the statutory maximum and in most cases they will be less than the maximum. An indictment is only a charge and is not evidence of guilt. A defendant is entitled to a fair trial in which it will be the government’s burden to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption Lear Enclarde, age 68, a resident of New Orleans, pled guilty today to conspiracy to commit honest services mail fraud in a one-count bill of information, announced U.S. Attorney Dana Boente. According to court documents, Enclarde, who worked in the Orleans Parish Criminal Clerk’s Office from 1973 through 2010, accepted cash and things of value from an unlicensed bail bondsman in exchange for her permitting the unlicensed bondsman to use the name of another, licensed bondsman and to forge that licensed bondsman’s signature on official court documents. Upon sentencing, which is scheduled for September 17, 2013, Enclarde faces a maximum term of imprisonment of five years, a fine of $250,000, and three years of supervised release following any term of imprisonment. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the New Orleans Police Department, the Orleans Parish District Attorney’s Office, and the United States Attorney’s Office. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Dan Friel.
corruption ABINDGON, VA—The police chief of the Marion, Virginia Police Department was arrested this morning on federal charges related to the distribution of a controlled substance. Michael Dean Roberts, a.k.a. “Fireball,” age 54, of Saltville, Virginia, was arrested via a federal criminal complaint earlier this morning and charged with one count of distribution of a controlled substance. According to a probable cause affidavit filed with the United States District Court for the Western District of Virginia in Abingdon, Roberts is charged with distributing the name brand prescription painkiller Lortab, which contained the Schedule III narcotic hydrocodone. The investigation of the case was conducted by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives; the Federal Bureau of Investigation; the Drug Enforcement Administration; the Virginia State Police; and the Washington County Sheriff’s Office. Assistant United States Attorney Zachary Lee will prosecute the case for the United States. A criminal complaint is only a charge and not evidence of guilt. The defendant is entitled to a fair trial with the burden on the government to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, and Michael B. Steinbach, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office, announce the filing of a criminal complaint charging defendant George Brown, 50, of Hollywood, Florida, with accepting bribes in connection with programs receiving federal funds, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 666. Brown was arrested yesterday and is scheduled to appear in federal court tomorrow in Fort Lauderdale at 11:00 a.m. before Magistrate Judge Lurana S. Snow. According to the criminal complaint, Brown was the Roadway Lighting Coordinator for the Department of Public Works (DPW) in Miami-Dade County. In this capacity, Brown was responsible for, among other things, overseeing the installation and/or maintenance of more than 45,000 street lights in the county’s roadway system. In 2011, a lighting contractor allegedly offered to provide Brown with “rewards” in exchange for the DPW’s purchase of the contractor’s lighting products. Brown agreed and subsequently accepted more than $13,000 in bribes from the contractor in 2011 and 2012. As detailed in the complaint, the bribes included appliances, computer equipment, and other merchandise, all paid for by the contractor. Among the merchandise that Brown received from the contractor was a 2.5 ton air conditioning unit, a Samsung stainless steel refrigerator, and a KitchenAid built-in single electric convection oven. The merchandise was either shipped directly to Brown’s home address or picked up by Brown at the contractor’s business in Miami, Florida. During the investigation, the contractor began to cooperate with law enforcement and recorded the conversations with Brown. In one recorded conversation, Brown assured the contractor that no one else knew about their arrangement. In another recorded conversation, the two discussed delivery to Brown of certain merchandise costing approximately $2,600, in exchange for Brown’s assistance in getting the DPW to purchase more than $40,000 worth of lighting products from the contractor for a project on 27th Avenue in Miami, Florida. If convicted of the charges in the criminal complaint, Brown faces a possible maximum statutory sentence of up to 10 years in prison. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeffrey N. Kaplan. A complaint is only an accusation and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at http://www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls.
corruption Earlier today, Luis Adorno, formerly the supervisory construction project manager of the Department of Architecture and Construction Engineering at the New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development (HPD), was sentenced to a term of imprisonment of 18 months, followed by 300 hours of community service, for his corruption conviction for taking bribes. As part of his sentence, Adorno also was ordered to forfeit $100,000 in bribery money to the government, representing the proceeds of his crime, and fined $10,000. The sentence was imposed by United States District Judge Nina Gershon at the U.S. Courthouse in Brooklyn, New York. The sentence was announced by Loretta E. Lynch, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York; George Venizelos, Assistant Director in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation, New York Field Office (FBI); Daniel R. Petrole, Deputy Inspector General, United States Department of Labor (DOL) Office of Inspector General; and Rose Gill Hearn, Commissioner, New York City Department of Investigation (DOI). Until his arrest in June 2012, Adorno was employed by HPD, the largest municipal developer of affordable housing in the nation. Adorno was responsible for personally conducting inspections of HPD construction projects and also supervising other inspectors. During 2008 and 2009, a contractor who worked on several HPD construction projects paid Adorno what amounted to a $100,000 bribe for Adorno’s assistance in getting the contractor additional work with HPD. The bribe was structured in a sophisticated manner to ensure that actual cash did not pass through Adorno’s hands. Rather, the contractor paid $100,000 to a real estate developer who was developing several HPD projects, and in return for the $100,000, the real estate developer agreed to give Adorno a 30 percent equity stake in the developer’s company. Today’s sentencing proceeding is the latest stemming from the government’s wide-ranging investigation into corruption involving the affordable housing industry in New York City. Four real estate developers and two other former HPD officials have pleaded guilty in this district to various charges, including racketeering conspiracy, fraud, and bribery, related to the development of affordable housing in the city. Three additional defendants await trial. “Luis Adorno admitted that he agreed to put his finger on the scale in favor of a contractor who paid him $100,000 in bribes. By receiving payment in the form of an equity stake in a real estate development company, Adorno sought to create the bribe that would keep on giving. Today’s sentence sends a clear message that any public servant, whether an elected legislator or an appointed official, who betrays the public trust will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law,” stated United States Attorney Lynch. Ms. Lynch thanked the Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation, New York; the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, Office of Inspector General; and the New York City Police Department for their cooperation in this case. DOI Commissioner Gill Hearn stated, “This ex-city employee lost his job and his bribe money and will soon take up residence in a prison cell. That was not the nest egg he bargained for when he sold his office for a hidden stake in a real estate deal. DOI thanks our federal partners for their shared determination to unearth the facts and demonstrate again that corruption is a losing strategy.” The government’s case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Cristina M. Posa, Anthony M. Capozzolo, and Claire Kedeshian. Defendant: Luis Adorno Residence: Scarsdale, New York Age: 48
corruption ATLANTA—Elton Augustin, a former Atlanta Police Department officer, was sentenced to two years in prison today for conspiring to accept bribes and lying to FBI agents. “Police officers are sworn to uphold the law and protect the community they serve, but this defendant protected an illegal business in exchange for cash and then lied to federal investigators,” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. “His actions betrayed the community and the honest law enforcement officers who serve honorably every day.” “While today’s sentencing ends one police officer’s career, it is important to note that the vast majority of dedicated law enforcement officers that serve our community understand their oaths to the badge and honor their commitment to their positions of trust,” stated Mark F. Giuliano, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office. “The FBI urges anyone with information regarding activities involving police corruption to contact their nearest FBI field office.” According to United States Attorney Yates, the charges, and other information presented in court: From June 2007 through August 2007, while employed as a police officer with the Atlanta Police Department (APD), Elton Augustin worked at an illegal nightclub in Atlanta, Georgia. Augustin, along with two other APD officers, received over $10,000 in cash to provide security and prevent police officers from investigating illegal activity at the nightclub, which included gambling, prostitution, drug sales, and permit violations. Augustin and the other officers were posted outside of the nightclub’s parking lot to intercept on-duty police officers responding to emergency calls. The officers’ presence at the nightclub prevented on-duty officers from discovering the illegal activity and allowed the club to operate undetected for several months. On September 15, 2007, APD officers shutdown the illegal nightclub and arrested the club’s owners. In 2010, federal agents learned about the officers’ employment at the illegal nightclub. When confronted, Augustin lied to federal agents investigating his employment at the illegal nightclub. The other two APD police officers, Lucius T. Solomon and Eric Jones, were also convicted of bribery charges. Solomon pleaded guilty to bribery and drug trafficking charges on September 2, 2010, and was sentenced to 12 years in prison on December 17, 2010. Jones pleaded guilty to conspiring with Augustin to accept bribes on April 5, 2013, and is awaiting sentencing. Augustin, 32, of Stockbridge, Georgia, was sentenced today by United States District Judge Timothy C. Batten, Sr. to serve two years in prison, to be followed by two years of supervised release, and to perform 100 hours of community service. Augustin was convicted of lying to federal agents after a jury trial on December 7, 2012. On February 14, 2013, Augustin pleaded guilty to conspiring to accept bribes. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Atlanta Police Department. Assistant United States Attorney Jeffrey A. Brown prosecuted the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Pressemails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia is www.justice.gov/usao/gan.
corruption Earlier today, Pedro Gautier Espada was sentenced before Judge Frederic Block in U.S. District Court in Brooklyn, New York, to six months’ imprisonment, to be followed by six months’ home confinement and one year of supervised release, for theft of federal funds from Bronx-based non-profit healthcare clinics, Soundview Healthcare Network (“Soundview”) and for failing to file a tax return for tax year 2009. As part of that sentence, Judge Block ordered Gautier Espada to serve 100 hours of community service, restitution to the Internal Revenue Service in the amount of $15,628, and additional restitution to the victims of his thefts in an amount to be determined by the court. Gautier Espada served the South Bronx as a New York City Councilman from 1997 to 2001 and as a New York State Assemblyman in 1996. On June 14, 2013, Judge Block sentenced Gautier Espada’s father, former New York State Senate Majority Leader Pedro Espada, Jr. to five years’ imprisonment, to be followed by three years of supervised release, for theft of federal funds from Soundview and lying on his 2005 personal tax return. As part of that sentence, Judge Block ordered Espada to serve 100 hours of community service, restitution to the Internal Revenue Service in the amount of $118,531, restitution to the victims of his thefts in an amount to be determined, and forfeiture of $368,088. The court remanded Espada to the custody of the Bureau of Prisons. The sentence was announced by Loretta E. Lynch, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York; George Venizelos, Assistant Director in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation, New York Field Office (FBI); and Toni Weirauch, Special Agent in Charge, Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation, New York (IRS). On October 12, 2012, Gautier Espada pled guilty to one count of stealing federal funding from Soundview and one count of failing to file a tax return for 2009. Gautier Espada was Soundview’s Director of Environmental Care and headed Soundview’s Compliance Committee. The government’s case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Todd Kaminsky, Carolyn Pokorny, and Claire Kedeshian. Defendant: Pedro Gautier Espada Age: 30 Fairfield, Connecticut
corruption Public corruption hits at the heart of what a government is supposed to do: serve its people. When public officials—whether elected, appointed, or under contract—use their public office for personal gain, they damage the public’s trust in all forms of government. These crimes are the result of deals sealed with whispered conversations, quick handshakes, and “under-the-table” money. Because of the secretive nature of bribes, such crimes are often difficult to detect and even more difficult to prove without the assistance of concerned citizens. To help identify potential criminal activity, the FBI has set up a Public Corruption Hotline—503-460-8585—and an e-mail account—PortlandTips@ic.fbi.gov. Whether by phone or e-mail, tipsters are asked to leave their name, telephone number, and a brief description of their concerns and observations. Agents will review voice-mail and e-mail daily, and they will contact individuals for follow-up as needed. “There are times when honest citizens stumble across a scheme involving public officials. We need those citizens to feel that they can—and should—have a voice in making our government responsive to their concerns and responsible for holding public officials to the highest standards,” said Greg Fowler, special agent in charge of the FBI in Oregon. What is Public Corruption? While the vast majority of public officials remain committed to the communities they serve, an extremely small minority of individuals use their public positions for personal or private gain. Public corruption includes bribery, extortion, embezzlement, racketeering, kickbacks, and money laundering, as well as wire, mail, bank, and tax fraud. It is a violation of federal law for any federal or state government official to ask for or receive anything of value for or because of any official act. Under federal law, the person who offers or pays a bribe is also guilty. The FBI, along with our local law enforcement partners, remains dedicated to ensuring this behavior is fully investigated and, if necessary, prosecuted under the law. Public corruption remains a top criminal priority for the FBI in Oregon. - Related story
corruption WASHINGTON—Jonathan Womble, 36, a former corrections officer at the District of Columbia Jail, pled guilty today to a federal charge of conspiracy to commit bribery for accepting $400 in cash in return for smuggling drugs and other contraband into the facility, announced U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen, Jr. and Valerie Parlave, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office. Womble pled guilty in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. The Honorable Reggie B. Walton ordered him detained pending sentencing on September 13, 2013. The charge carries a statutory maximum of five years in prison and financial penalties. According to the government’s evidence, the FBI received information in January 2013 that a corrections officer was providing narcotics and other contraband to an inmate at the D.C. Jail. An investigation revealed that the inmate was working with co-conspirators outside the jail to assemble, deliver, receive, and distribute narcotics intended for inmates at the jail and that they were paying an individual to get the drugs into the facility. On January 27, 2013, Womble met with one of the co-conspirators in the parking lot of a carry-out restaurant in the District of Columbia. The co-conspirator gave Womble a plastic bag, which contained a powdery substance consistent with heroin and marijuana. The bag also contained a cell phone, cell phone charger, and $400 in cash. Womble understood that the cash was in exchange for him getting the drugs, cell phone, and charger to the inmate in the jail. Two days later, he smuggled the items into the jail and provided them to the inmate. Plans were subsequently made for another delivery of contraband. However, on February 12, 2013, multiple bags of marijuana were discovered and intercepted inside Womble’s locker at the jail by the District of Columbia Department of Corrections and one of its K-9 dogs. The marijuana had been provided to Womble by a person who wanted it delivered to another inmate. In announcing the guilty plea, U.S. Attorney Machen and Assistant Director in Charge Parlave commended the work of the three agencies who jointly worked the case, including agents from the FBI’s Washington Field Office, an FBI task force officer from Metropolitan Police Department (MPD) and investigators from the District of Columbia Department of Corrections Office of Investigative Services. Finally, they commended the efforts of those who worked on the case from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, including Paralegal Specialist Lenisse Edloe, Legal Assistant Angela Lawrence, and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Richard E. DiZinno and Christopher R. Kavanaugh, who are prosecuting the case.
corruption CHICAGO—A former Chicago alderman, the head of a $1 billion Nebraska-based prescription medication provider, and another man were convicted today of conspiracy to commit bribery of a fictitious public official to purportedly obtain business from the Los Angeles County hospital system after a two-week trial. A federal jury deliberated several hours today before returning guilty verdicts against all three defendants. The defendants, Ambrosio Medrano, 59, of Chicago; James Barta, 71, of Fremont, Nebraska; and Gustavo Buenrostro, 50, of Arlington Heights, were each convicted of the single count against them. They each face a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. They remain free on bond pending sentencing, which U.S. District Judge John J. Tharp, Jr., scheduled for 1p.m. on September 24. According to the trial evidence, which included numerous audio and video recordings of conversations with the defendants, Medrano introduced an undercover FBI agent, who was posing as a purchasing agent, to Barta, the president of family-owned Sav-Rx, and Buenrostro, an associate of Barta and a former Sav-Rx employee. Barta, Buenrostro, and Medrano allegedly agreed to bribe the undercover agent and the fictitious Los Angeles County hospital official—with Barta handing a $6,500 check to the undercover agent on June 22, 2012—to do business with Sav-Rx, a Fremont, Nebraska-based national provider of managed care prescription medication services. Between December 2011 and March 2012, Medrano, Buenrostro, and a cooperating witness discussed the scheme, resulting in a meeting attended by those three, Barta, and the undercover agent at a Chicago restaurant on March 21. During the meeting, Barta discussed Sav-Rx’s business, including a contract with Cook County. The undercover agent explained a kickback arrangement for him and the fictitious Los Angeles County hospital official if they were to succeed in expanding Sav-Rx’s services into the Los Angeles County hospital system. Barta replied that the arrangement was okay with him. In subsequent conversations, Medrano allegedly assured the cooperating witness and undercover agent that Barta and Buenrostro wanted to do a deal with the agent and were willing to provide an initial $10,000 payment in good faith. The same group of individuals met again on May 9 at a Chicago restaurant and continued discussing steering Sav-Rx’s services to Los Angeles County, including using Medrano and Buenrostro to be the minority participants in a contract, with Barta endorsing that idea. Barta directed Buenrostro to do research on Los Angeles County and paid the lunch bill. The undercover agent said that the fictitious hospital official was not going to take any action until there was an agreement and the official saw some money. “We understand that and that’s not the problem,” Barta replied. On June 22, 2012, Barta, Buenrostro, and Medrano met with the undercover agent at a restaurant in Omaha. The undercover agent explained that half the good faith money they had been discussing was for his role in brokering the contract, and half was for the fictitious Los Angeles County official. The undercover agent assured Barta that the good faith payment would be refunded if Sav-Rx did not obtain a contract from the hospital system. After further discussion about the indirect manner that Barta’s payment would be funneled to the fictitious official, Barta wrote a check on a Sav-Rx operations account, payable to the undercover agent for $6,500, and gave it to the undercover agent. The guilty verdict was announced today by Gary S. Shapiro, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois, and Cory B. Nelson, Special Agent in Charge of the Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The government is being represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Christopher J. Stetler and Steven Grimes.
corruption PITTSBURGH—A former East Washington Police chief has been sentenced in federal court to 135 months’ imprisonment, followed by three years’ supervised release, on his conviction of Hobbs Act violations, United States Attorney David J. Hickton announced today. United States District Judge Joy Flowers Conti imposed the sentence on Donald Abraham Solomon, 57, of Lemoyne Avenue, Washington, Pennsylvania, 15301. According to information presented to the court, Solomon was the chief of Police of East Washington Borough, in Washington County, Pennsylvania. He received payments from a purported drug dealer, who was an undercover FBI agent, to protect drug shipments and to purchase law enforcement restricted police equipment. Assistant United States Attorneys Robert S. Cessar and Lee J. Karl prosecuted this case on behalf of the government. U.S. Attorney Hickton commended the Federal Bureau of Investigation for the investigation leading to the successful prosecution of Solomon.
corruption A Byte Out of History The Lasting Legacy of Operation Illwind 06/14/13 Twenty-five years ago today, a major multi-agency investigation into defense procurement fraud—later codenamed Operation Illwind, a likely reference to an old English proverb—was announced to the world via a one-page press statement. By the time the dust had settled several years later, the case revealed that some Defense Department employees had taken bribes from businesses in exchange for inside information on procurement bids that helped some of the nation’s largest military contractors win lucrative weapons systems deals. More than 60 contractors, consultants, and government officials were ultimately prosecuted—including a high-ranking Pentagon assistant secretary and a deputy assistant secretary of the Navy. As a monetary measure of the significance of the crimes, the case resulted in a total of $622 million worth of fines, recoveries, restitutions, and forfeitures. The investigation began, as many cases of fraud and abuse do, when an honest individual refused to take part in criminal activity and instead contacted authorities. In 1986, a Virginia defense contractor was approached by a military consultant who said he could obtain proprietary bid information from a competitor in exchange for cash. The contractor did the right thing and reported the conversation to the FBI and the Naval Investigative Service (NIS)—now called the Naval Criminal Investigative Service, or NCIS.  Illwind Investigators: In their Own Words At the height of the Illwind investigation, hundreds of Bureau agents were assigned to the case, working alongside their federal partners. Many of these agents have since retired, but there are still a fair number around in various FBI offices. Here are recollections from a few of those agents about the case: “I was a new agent assigned to the Washington Field Office and worked on the Illwind task force for about two years. This task force was comprised of FBI, DCIS, and NIS agents, along with several federal prosecutors. This team of young agents and seasoned investigators and prosecutors was able to hold responsible those who tried to influence the defense procurement process by through monetary bribes and gifts.” - Special agent, Milwaukee “I was a new agent temporarily assigned to the case. As a former Department of Defense auditor, the case truly interested me. I would like to think that my expertise helped some on the case, but as there where so many agents working on it, I learned early on how to be a team player. I knew that by charging so many government contractors and government employees, the FBI was sending a message loud and clear that in the U.S., we don’t buy off government officials in order to get contracts.”  - Special agent, Sacramento - Read more The contractor agreed to cooperate and to let us monitor phone conversions he had with the consultant. After collecting enough information to determine what the consultant was up to, we confronted the man—and he agreed to cooperate as well. We soon had enough probable cause for the case’s first court-authorized electronic surveillance, or wiretap, and over time developed probable cause for others. That enabled the FBI and its partners in the case—including NIS, the Defense Criminal Intelligence Service, the Air Force Office of Special Investigations, and the Internal Revenue Service’s Criminal Division—to execute more than three dozen search warrants in D.C. and 12 states on June 14, 1988. These searches of the offices of defense contractors, consultants, and government officials yielded a mountain of evidence, including financial documents. A slew of indictments followed, and many of the defendants—faced with overwhelming evidence, including recorded telephone conversations where they had discussed their crimes—simply pled guilty. The legacy of Operation Illwind is significant. The scandal so shocked the nation that just five months after the case became public, new rules governing federal procurement were put into place. The Procurement Integrity Act, amended in 1996, remains the law of the land. The multi-agency investigation was also groundbreaking for the Bureau, especially in its use of court-authorized electronic surveillance—one of the first times we had used this tool so extensively in a white-collar crime investigation. A quarter century later, the case remains the largest and most successful investigation of defense procurement fraud in U.S. history. Building on lessons learned from the case, the FBI continues to work with its partners to investigate defense procurement fraud and other government scams through our public corruption program, which addresses the FBI’s number one criminal priority. Using sophisticated and traditional investigative techniques, we remain committed to exposing procurement fraud not only in the Washington, D.C. area, but also around the nation—including, more recently, in places like California, Florida, and Utah.
corruption Earlier today, Pedro Espada, Jr. was sentenced before Judge Frederic Block in U.S. District Court in Brooklyn, New York, to five years’ imprisonment, to be followed by three years of supervised release, for theft of federal funds from Bronx-based non-profit health care clinics and lying on his 2005 personal tax return. As part of that sentence, Judge Block ordered Espada to serve 100 hours of community service, restitution to the Internal Revenue Service in the amount of $118,531, restitution to the victims of his thefts in an amount to be determined, and forfeiture of $368,088. The court remanded Espada to the custody of the Bureau of Prisons. Espada is a former New York state senator for the 33rd Senate District in the Bronx who served as the New York State senate majority leader from 2009 to 2010. The sentence was announced by Loretta E. Lynch, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York; George Venizelos, Assistant Director in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), New York Field Office; and Toni Weirauch, Special Agent in Charge, Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Criminal Investigation, New York. “The people of the Bronx trusted Pedro Espada, Jr. to have their best interests at heart. Instead, he abused that trust to the tune of more than half-a-million dollars. Under obligation to use the funds he received for the benefit of people sorely in need of quality health care, he chose instead to benefit himself and his family at their expense. Espada embezzled funds to finance his personal lifestyle and lavish gifts on friends and family members at the expense of taxpayers and underprivileged members of the Bronx community who were deprived of needed health services and medical equipment. He continued his campaign of lying and fraud on his tax returns,” stated United States Attorney Lynch. “Espada has finally been held to account for his crimes.” Ms. Lynch expressed her grateful appreciation to the FBI and IRS, the agencies responsible for leading the government’s investigation, and thanked the Office of New York State Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman for its assistance. On May 14, 2012, a federal jury in Brooklyn returned a guilty verdict against Espada on four counts of stealing from non-profit medical clinics in the Bronx that received federal funding. On October 12, 2012, Espada pled guilty to making false statements on his 2005 personal tax return and agreed not to appeal or otherwise challenge the jury’s verdict. That same day, Espada’s son and co-defendant, Pedro Gautier Espada, pled guilty to guilty to one count of stealing federal funding from non-profit medical clinics and one count of failing to file a tax return in 2009, and his sentencing has been scheduled for June 18, 2013, also before Judge Block. FBI Assistant Director in Charge Venizelos stated, “Over 30 years ago, Pedro Espada, Jr. helped establish the Soundview Health Center, but his own greed and self-dealing undermined that good work. Espada’s embezzlement of federal funds diverted money meant to serve the health needs of the people of the South Bronx. In lining his own pockets, he betrayed those people and stole from U.S. taxpayers in the process. There is a price to pay for these betrayals.” The successful outcome of the collaborative effort in this investigation demonstrates the government’s resolve in investigating and prosecuting public corruption. Today’s sentences mark the end of a long period of criminal activity that harmed the patients of the not-for-profit clinics, who depended on the services the clinics provided and law abiding American taxpayers, who have to pick up the slack whenever others deliberately do not pay their fair share. IRS Criminal Investigation is proud of its partnership with the FBI and the U.S. Attorney’s Office,” stated IRS Special Agent in Charge Weirauch. The government’s case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Todd Kaminsky, Carolyn Pokorny, and Claire Kedeshian. Defendants Pedro Espada, Jr. Age: 58 Mamaroneck, New York Pedro Gautier Espada Age: 39 Fairfield, Connecticut
corruption ST. LOUIS, MO—Eric Hinson was sentenced to 35 months in prison on mail fraud and multiple tax evasion charges involving his misuse of approximately $593,236 of St. Clair Fire Protection District funds between January 2006 and September 2011. As a result of the federal investigation, Hinson resigned his positions as chief at both the St. Clair Fire Protection District and the Ladue Fire Department. In addition to the prison sentence, he was ordered to pay restitution of $615,298. “In rural Missouri, volunteer fire personnel are the backbone of public safety when it comes to our homes and property,” said U.S. Attorney Richard Callahan. “Aside from our thanks, they deserve much better than this from their leaders.” The St. Clair Fire Protection District (district) provides fire protection service for Franklin County, Missouri, and has four fire houses, 18 full-time firefighters, and between 25-50 volunteer firefighters. The district is primarily funded by public funds through real estate tax, personal property tax, and sales tax. Eric Hinson began with the district as a volunteer firefighter during 1985 and was elected to the Board of Directors for the district in 1997 and as treasurer of the district in 1999. During January 2011, he became the fire chief for the district while continuing to perform his duties as treasurer until his resignation from the district on September 28, 2011. As treasurer, Hinson was responsible for preparing the annual budgets, facilitating the annual financial statement audit, gaining approval from the District’s Board of Directors for expenditures, reconciling bank statements, and performing other accounting related activities, in the QuickBooks general ledger system, other than for payroll. He also had the ability to access the QuickBooks system remotely from outside the district offices. According to court documents, Hinson used the district credit cards to pay for family vacations to Hawaii and Florida and to pay for personal items such as sporting goods and other items, limousine rentals, tickets to Six Flags, Big Surf Water Park, other entertainment expenses, restaurant meals, gasoline, and hotel rooms, as well as to obtain significant cash advances. Without the knowledge and authority of the district, Hinson directed that these personal credit card charges be paid with district funds. Further, on several occasions, Hinson wrote district checks to pay for his own personal expenses, including checks to Ford Credit for a pickup truck, to Macy’s for furniture, to John Deere Credit for tractor parts, and checks to Bank of America and Fifth Third Bank for other personal expenses. In order to conceal his scheme, Hinson accessed the district’s QuickBooks to alter reported general ledger activity by backdating certain of his fraudulent transactions and by changing the payee in order to manipulate the district’s accounting records so as to hide the existence of his fraudulent transactions. Through his fraudulent conduct, Hinson obtained approximately $593,236 from the St. Clair Fire Protection District. Additionally, Hinson filed false tax returns for the years 2006 through 2010, leaving total additional taxes due of $132,383. “The people of the city of St. Clair should applaud their fire department for their integrity,” said Dean C. Bryant, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI St. Louis Division. “The fire department itself exposed the crime of their former boss at the expense of their department’s reputation knowing it was the right thing to do.” Hinson, 43, St. Clair, Missouri, pled guilty in February to one felony count of mail fraud and five felony counts of tax evasion and appeared today for sentencing before United States District Judge E. Richard Webber. This case was investigated by the St. Clair Police Department, Federal Bureau of Investigation, and Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation, with the assistance of the St. Clair Fire Protection District. Assistant United States Attorney Hal Goldsmith handled the case for the U.S. Attorney’s Office.
corruption A former employee with the federal district court clerk’s office in Los Angeles and her husband were sentenced late Wednesday for their roles in a scheme to access and disclose information contained in sealed court documents in order to tip off organized crime figures prior to arrests, announced André Birotte, Jr., the United States Attorney in Los Angeles; and Bill L. Lewis, the Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Los Angeles Field Office. The Honorable Michael W. Fitzgerald sentenced the former clerk, Nune Gevorkyan, 36, to six months in federal prison, and her husband, Oganes Koshkaryan, 41, to 57 months in federal prison for their role in the public corruption scheme. In addition, Judge Fitzgerald sentenced Gevorkyan and Koshkaryan to three years’ supervised release, a monetary assessment, and a condition that both abstain from associating with members of Armenian Power, an established criminal enterprise. Gevorkyan and Koshkaryan, both of Hollywood, were arrested in August 2012 after being charged in a federal criminal complaint with conspiracy to obstruct justice. A federal grand jury later returned an indictment in United States District Court in Los Angeles charging Gevorkyan and Koshkaryan in connection with the scheme. Defendant Koshkaryan was also charged with a variety of violations relative to a health care fraud scheme. On January 7, 2013, Gevorkyan pled guilty to one count of conspiracy to obstruct an official proceeding. Koshkaryan pled guilty to multiple counts of the indictment, including conspiracy to obstruct an official proceeding; health care fraud; possession of unauthorized access devices; and aggravated identity theft. Koshkaryan has remained in federal custody since being arrested. Gevorkyan was ordered to report to begin serving her sentence on August 7, 2013. An investigation that began last year by the Eurasian Organized Crime Task Force in Los Angeles obtained evidence of the activity during an undercover investigation. Koshkaryan, who had been fraudulently providing Medicare beneficiary information to an undercover law enforcement officer, advised he could access confidential information from the federal court system in exchange for a fee. On multiple ocassions, Koshkaryan delivered the confidential information that had been obtained from sealed court records to the undercover officer. Some of the compromised records included individuals who were members or associates of the Armenian Power criminal enterprise and subjects of pending federal arrest warrants. Checks of electronic court records confirmed that that Gevorkyan, who was employed as a clerk in the Criminal Intake area of the district court’s clerk’s office, had used her official position to access the sealed court records and gave them to Koshkaryan. During the sentencing hearing, Judge Fitzgerald described the corrupt activity as “unthinkable,” commenting that “the defendant struck a serious blow to not just the court system, but also the city of Los Angeles.” Judge Fitzgerald commented further that defendant Gevorkyan “besmirched the reputation of her co-workers.” This case was investigated by the Eurasian Organized Crime Task Force, which is composed of agents with the FBI; U.S. Secret Service; U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement; Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigative Division; and federally deputized state law enforcement officers with local agencies, including the Glendale Police Department; the Los Angeles Police Department; and the Burbank Police Department. Koshkaryan and Gevorkyan were prosecuted in Los Angeles by the United States Attorney’s Office for the Central District of California and the Department of Justice’s Organized Crime and Gangs Section. Media Contact Assistant United States Attorney Martin Estrada: 213-894-3358 United States Attorney’s Office Public Affairs: 213-894-6947 FBI Press Relations: 310-996-3343
corruption DALLAS—Thomas S. Kantzos, 45, of Fort Worth, Texas, an officer with the Arlington Police Department (APD), was arrested last night on a federal criminal complaint charging him with unlawfully providing law enforcement sensitive information by exceeding authorized access to a protected computer. He will make his initial appearance in federal court this afternoon, at 2:00 p.m., before U.S. Magistrate Paul D. Stickney. Today’s announcement was made by U.S. Attorney Sarah R. Saldaña of the Northern District of Texas. According to the affidavit filed with the criminal complaint, a particular individual (witness), who was arrested in January 2013 for distributing anabolic steroids, a Scheduled III controlled substance, admitted to routinely using and distributing anabolic steroids and human growth hormones (HGH) during the last 13 years. This witness also admitted that during the last five or six years, he directly and regularly provided anabolic steroids and HGH to Kantzos, whom he knew to be an officer with the APD. In fact, on at least one occasion, this witness delivered approximately 20 HGH kits to Kantzos while Kantzos was on duty, wearing an APD uniform, and driving a marked APD patrol car. The affidavit further notes that on multiple occasions, Kantzos solicited anabolic steroids from this witness for himself and for others, including friends and colleagues in the APD. Kantzos allegedly collected money from the other individuals before he obtained the steroids, but on some occasions, he “fronted” the money for the purchases. According to the affidavit, most of the anabolic steroids and HGH he obtained from this witness were provided to other officers of the APD. Also, Kantzos allegedly put this witness in contact with two other APD officers so that they could obtain anabolic steroids directly. Kantzos was authorized to access law enforcement information obtained through the Texas Crime Information Center (TCIC) and the National Crime Information Center (NCIC), and he received specialized training on the authorized uses of the information, as well as the potential penalties for the misuse of such information. Personal use of such information, including releasing information to members of the general public, is not authorized and violates APD policy. On several occasions, according to the affidavit, this witness, who indicated he was concerned that police might be watching his activities, asked Kantzos to query a name or a license plate using a law enforcement database. On several occasions, Kantzos did this, or had someone else do it for him, and then provided the obtained sensitive information to the witness. In fact, on one occasion in December 2011, Kantzos provided the name of a person who was known to be a law enforcement officer and, based on that information, the witness inspected his/her vehicle and discovered a tracking device attached to it. The investigation revealed that this witness immediately began “laying low” for several weeks. During that time, however, the witness and Kantzos talked about the tracking device and the police surveillance of the witness. A federal complaint is a written statement of the essential facts of the offense charged and must be made under oath before a magistrate judge. A defendant is entitled to the presumption of innocence until proven guilty. The U.S. Attorney’s Office has 30 days to present the matter to a grand jury for indictment. Kantzos is charged with exceeding authorized access to a protected computer. That offense, as charged, carries a maximum statutory penalty 10 years in federal prison and a $250,000 fine, per count. The matter is being investigated by the FBI and the Texas Ranger Division of the Texas Department of Public Safety. Assistant U.S. Attorney Mark Penley and Deputy Criminal Chief Assistant U.S. Attorney Gary Tromblay are in charge of the prosecution.
corruption WASHINGTON—Al J. Hurley, a former county commissioner in Sumter County, Georgia, was sentenced today to 36 months in prison stemming from his acceptance of illicit payments in exchange for his official efforts to secure government contracts for a private contractor, Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and Middle District of Georgia U.S. Attorney Michael J. Moore announced. Hurley, 55, of Americus, Georgia, was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge W. Louis Sands. On December 3, 2012, a federal jury sitting in the Albany Division of the Middle District of Georgia found Hurley guilty of one count each of attempted extortion and federal program bribery. Hurley was first elected to the five-member Sumter County board of commissioners in 1999. As the primary governing body for the county, the board presided over a variety of official matters, including the bidding process for and award of various county contracts. Evidence at trial showed that from September to December 2011, Hurley, in his capacity as a county commissioner, solicited and agreed to accept cash payments—including $5,000 on October 23, 2011, and $15,000 on December 19, 2011—from a private contractor in exchange for Hurley’s repeated promises to use official action and influence to help facilitate the award of county contracting work to the contractor. In particular, Hurley told the contractor that he would help him win a $100,000 depot renovation contract in a city within Hurley’s district. Trial testimony also established that, in order to drive up the bribe amount, Hurley invented two inside contacts that he claimed to have at a new racetrack project in his district and claimed the contacts could influence the award of related contracting work in favor of the contractor. Hurley, who testified, admitted the contacts did not exist. This case was investigated by the FBI. This case was prosecuted by Trial Attorney Eric G. Olshan of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney K. Alan Dasher of the Middle District of Georgia.
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, Acting United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, and Kimberly K. Mertz, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, announced that David Moffa, 53, of Middlebury, was sentenced today by United States District Judge Janet Bond Arterton in New Haven to 24 months of imprisonment, followed by one year of supervised release, for participating in a scheme to direct illegal contributions into the campaign of a candidate for the U.S. House of Representatives. Moffa, who is a former president of the American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees (AFSCME), was also ordered to pay a $5,000 fine. According to court documents and statements made in court, in August 2011, the state of Connecticut applied for a court order enjoining Roll Your Own (RYO) smoke shops from continuing to operate without complying with state law governing tobacco manufacturers. RYO smoke shops are retail businesses that sell loose smoking tobacco and cigarette-rolling materials and offer customers the option of paying a “rental” fee to insert the loose tobacco and the rolling materials into a RYO machine, which is capable of rapidly rolling large quantities of cigarettes. Customers did not pay a tax on the RYO cigarettes when rolled by the RYO machines, in contrast to cigarettes purchased over-the-counter. Paul Rogers and George Tirado co-owned Smoke House Tobacco, a RYO smoke shop with two locations in Waterbury. Fearing that the Connecticut General Assembly would enact legislation harmful to RYO smoke shop owners’ business interests during the 2012 legislative session, Rogers, Tirado, Moffa, Harry Raymond “Ray” Soucy, Benjamin Hogan, and others engaged in a scheme to direct conduit contributions into the campaign of Christopher Donovan, a candidate for the U.S. House of Representatives. At the time, Donovan was also the speaker of the Connecticut House of Representatives. As part of the scheme, the co-conspirators recruited multiple individuals to serve as conduit contributors to the campaign. These individuals permitted checks to be written in their own names to the campaign, and certain conspirators reimbursed them with cash, thereby concealing the fact that RYO smoke shop owners were contributing to the campaign. The investigation revealed that, on November 2, 2011, Moffa, Rogers, and another RYO smoke shop owner met at Smoke House Tobacco in Waterbury, and Moffa advised the other attendees that Soucy could help the RYO smoke shop owners prevent the enactment of harmful legislation. Moffa then called Soucy and, shortly thereafter, Soucy arrived at Smoke House Tobacco and joined the meeting. Soucy stated that he was a “friend” of Donovan’s and could assist in arranging a meeting between RYO smoke shop owners and Donovan. On November 30, 2011, Moffa met with Soucy, Rogers, and another RYO owner at Smoke House Tobacco. During the meeting, Moffa discussed with the RYO smoke shop owners that they should make a $5,000 contribution to the Donovan for Congress campaign at a fundraising event to be held on December 8, 2011. Moffa volunteered to serve as a conduit contributor in order conceal the fact that the RYO smoke shop owners were actually financing the contributions. On that date, Moffa told the RYO smoke shop owners, “You give me the money, I’ll give you a check.” At a meeting at Smoke House Tobacco on December 8, 2011, Rogers and another RYO smoke shop owner provided Moffa with $2,500 in U.S. currency. Moffa then wrote a check for $2,500 in his wife’s name to Donovan for Congress and provided Soucy with his wife’s biographical information so that Soucy could fill in a contribution envelope provided by the campaign. Soucy, Rogers, and the other shop owner then went to the fundraising event, where they delivered two $2,500 contributions, including the contribution in Moffa’s wife’s name to the campaign. Following the event, Moffa met the group for dinner. On approximately January 31, 2012, the Donovan for Congress campaign submitted to the Federal Election Commission (FEC) a report of the campaign’s receipts and disbursements for the period October 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011. The report falsely reported that it had received a $2,500 contribution from Moffa’s wife when, in fact, neither Moffa nor his wife had made a contribution to the campaign. On June 1, 2012, FBI special agents investigating this matter interviewed Moffa. During the interview, Moffa falsely stated that he did not receive any cash in exchange for writing the check to the Donovan for Congress campaign. On November 2, 2012, Moffa pleaded guilty to one count of conspiring to make false statements to the FEC and to impede the FEC’s enforcement of federal campaign finance laws. Soucy, Rogers, Tirado, Hogan, Waterbury business owner Daniel Monteiro, and Donovan for Congress campaign manager Joshua Nassi also pleaded guilty to charges related to this scheme and await sentencing. In addition, on May 21, 2013, a jury found Robert Braddock, Jr., the campaign’s finance director, guilty of one count of conspiring to make false statements to the FEC and to impede the function of the FEC, one count of accepting more than $10,000 in federal campaign contributions made by persons in the names of others, and one count of causing a false report to be filed with the FEC. He also awaits sentencing. This matter is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Christopher M. Mattei and Eric J. Glover.
corruption Former Maverick County Solid Waste Authority general manager and chief executive officer of the Maverick County landfill Hector Chavez, Jr. faces up to 10 years in federal prison, a fine of up to $250,000, and restitution to the county after pleading guilty to theft concerning programs receiving federal funds, announced United States Attorney Robert Pitman and FBI Special Agent in Charge Armando Fernandez. Appearing before U.S. Magistrate Judge Victor Garcia this morning in Del Rio, Chavez admitted that from March 9, 2012 to December 28, 2012, he pocketed over $62,000 in forged Maverick County checks he drafted himself. Also this morning before Judge Garcia, general contractor Jose Telles, Jr., of Eagle Pass, Texas, pleaded guilty to paying a bribe to an agent of an organization receiving federal funds. As a result of his plea, Telles faces up to 10 years in federal prison and a fine of up to $250,000. By pleading guilty, Telles admitted that in 2010, he paid a $5,000 bribe to a Maverick County commissioner after being awarded an approximate $30,000 construction contract with Maverick County. Telles is scheduled to be sentenced on December 9, 2013, before U.S. District Judge Alia Moses in Del Rio; Chavez, September 17, 2013, before U.S. District Judge David A. Ezra in Del Rio. To date, 12 individuals have pleaded guilty to federal charges and await sentencing in connection with this investigation. This ongoing investigation is being conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Texas Department of Public Safety. Individuals who have first-hand information about corruption, fraud, or bribery related to Maverick County are urged to contact the FBI at (210) 225-6741. Assistant United States Attorney Michael Galdo is prosecuting these cases on behalf of the government.
corruption CHICAGO—Regina Evans and her husband, Ronald Evans, the former police chief and the former inspector general, respectively, of suburban Country Club Hills, were each charged today with three counts of filing false federal income tax returns for allegedly failing to report all of their income during calendar years 2007-09. They were charged in a felony information filed today in U.S. District Court in Chicago. Regina Evans’ attorney has authorized the government to disclose that she will be pleading guilty to the tax charges after the government files a request to transfer the case against her to the Central District of Illinois in Springfield for disposition. Regina Evans, 50, who was Country Club Hills police chief from 2009 to 2011, and Ronald Evans, 46, are scheduled to appear in U.S. District Court in Springfield on June 18. The defendants were charged with failing to report all of their income in 2009, when they allegedly converted to personal income more than $500,000 of a $1.25 million state grant. They also allegedly failed to report all of their income in 2007, 2008, and 2009 from Prime Time Limousine, a Chicago transportation and security services company that they jointly owned and operated. According to the charging document, Regina Evans founded and ran an organization called We Are Our Brother’s Keeper that, in 2009, received a $1.25 million employment opportunities grant from the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity to provide pre-apprenticeship educational and vocational training for people employed in building trades, such as bricklayers and electricians. The couple allegedly used more than $500,000 for non-grant-related personal purposes, making that money personal income. On their federal income tax return for 2009, the couple stated that Prime Time’s gross receipts were approximately $150,000, knowing that its gross receipts totaled more than $201,297. They also allegedly stated that they did not have any other income, knowing that they had converted at least $500,000 in grant money. In 2007, the defendants allegedly filed a false tax return by reporting Prime Time’s gross receipts were approximately $205,290, when the business actually had gross receipts totaling more than $360,649, and they allegedly filed a false 2008 tax return stating Prime Time’s gross receipts were approximately $150,630, when it actually had gross receipts of more than $291,414. The charges were announced today by Gary S. Shapiro, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois, and James C. Lee, Special Agent in Charge of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation Division in Chicago. The Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation participated in the investigation. Filing a false federal income tax return carries a maximum penalty of three years in prison and a $250,000 fine. In addition, a defendant convicted of tax offenses faces mandatory costs of prosecution and remains civilly liable to the government for any and all back taxes, as well as a potential civil fraud penalty of up to 75 percent of the underpayment plus interest. If convicted, the court must determine a reasonable sentence to be imposed under federal statutes and the advisory United States Sentencing Guidelines. The government is being represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Joel Hammerman. The public is reminded that an information contains only charges and is not evidence of guilt. The defendant is presumed innocent and is entitled to a fair trial at which the government has the burden of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption WASHINGTON—A former U.S. Congressman and a real estate investor were convicted today by a federal jury in Tucson, Arizona, of conspiring together to extort and bribe individuals seeking a federal land exchange. Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney John Leonardo of the District of Arizona, and Special Agent in Charge Douglas F. Price of the FBI’s Phoenix Division. Richard G. Renzi, 55, of Burke, Virginia, was found guilty of 17 felony offenses, including conspiracy, honest services wire fraud, extortion under color of official right, racketeering, money laundering, and making false statements to insurance regulators. James W. Sandlin, 62, of Sherman, Texas, was found guilty of 13 felony offenses including conspiracy, honest services wire fraud, extortion under color of official right, and money laundering. Sentencing is set before U.S. District Judge David C. Bury on August 19, 2013. “Former Congressman Renzi’s streak of criminal activity was a betrayal of the public trust and abuse of the political process,” said Acting Assistant Attorney General Raman. “After years of misconduct as a businessman, political candidate and member of Congress, Mr. Renzi now faces the consequences for breaking the laws that he took an oath to support and defend.” “Our democracy is undermined whenever our elected officials misuse the power entrusted to them by the voters to serve their own private interests rather than in the service of the public interest,” said U.S. Attorney Leonardo. “The jury’s verdict reinforces the fundamental principle that our society is governed by the rule of law, and that no citizen, including the most influential and powerful among us, is above the law.” “Today’s conviction is a culmination of the investigative efforts of the FBI and IRS-Criminal Investigation over a period of several years,” said FBI Special Agent in Charge Price. “Public corruption is one of the top criminal priorities of the FBI, and it is imperative that elected public officials be held accountable to uphold the public’s trust. The FBI remains committed to this criminal priority in combating public corruption at all levels.” According to evidence at trial, Renzi, then a member of Congress from Arizona’s 1st Congressional District, promised in 2005 to use his legislative influence to profit from a federal land exchange that involved property owned by Sandlin, a real estate investor. At the time, Sandlin owed Renzi $700,000 in future payments from their business dealings, and Renzi threatened a proponent of the land exchange that he would not support it unless they purchased Sandlin’s property in Cochise County, Arizona. When that individual refused, Renzi promised a second proponent of a land exchange that he would support the exchange if they purchased Sandlin’s property. According to an agreement reached in May 2005, Sandlin was paid $1 million in earnest money, out of which he paid $200,000 to Renzi. Just before Sandlin received the $1.6 million balance owed on the exchange, he paid an additional $533,000 to Renzi. Evidence at trial further showed that from 2001 to 2003, Renzi engaged in insurance fraud by diverting his clients’ insurance premiums to fund his first campaign for Congress, and he provided false statements to various state regulators who were investigating his activities. Renzi was indicted in February 2008, and in October 2008, Renzi moved to dismiss the indictment under his rights as a member of Congress under the Speech or Debate Clause. The court denied his motion in February 2010, and Renzi pursued an interlocutory appeal. After Renzi’s appeal was unsuccessful, trial was set for May 2013. Honest services wire fraud, extortion under color of official right, concealment money laundering, and racketeering each carry maximum penalties of 20 years in prison. Conspiracy carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison and making false statements to insurance regulators and transactional money laundering each carry maximum penalties of 10 years in prison. This case was investigated by the FBI and the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation. The prosecution was handled by Trial Attorneys David Harbach and Sean Mulryne of the Department of Justice’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Gary Restaino and James Knapp of the District of Arizona.
corruption WASHINGTON—Michael A. Brown, a former member of the Council of the District of Columbia, pled guilty today to a charge of bribery for a scheme in which he accepted a total of $55,000 in a series of meetings, spanning eight months, with undercover FBI agents posing as officials of a company that purportedly wanted to win government contracting opportunities. The guilty plea was announced by U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen, Jr.; Timothy Gallagher, Special Agent in Charge of the Criminal Division of the FBI’s Washington Field Office; and Thomas J. Kelly, Special Agent in Charge of the Washington Field Office of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI). Brown, 48, pled guilty in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. The Honorable Robert L. Wilkins scheduled sentencing for October 3, 2012. The charge carries a statutory maximum of 15 years in prison and financial penalties. Under federal sentencing guidelines, the parties have agreed that the applicable range would be 37 to 46 months in prison and a possible fine of $7,500 to $75,000. The plea agreement, which is contingent upon the court’s approval, calls for a sentence of up to 37 months, to be followed by up to three years of supervised release. The plea agreement also calls for Brown to pay a money judgment of $35,000 in forfeiture, covering the amount of money he collected before confronted by law enforcement. Brown is the third member of the Council of the District of Columbia to plead guilty within the past two years to federal charges involving crimes committed while they were in office. Harry L. Thomas, Jr., who represented Ward 5, pled guilty in January 2012 to federal theft and tax charges in a scheme in which he used more than $350,000 in taxpayer money for his own personal benefit. Kwame R. Brown, the Council’s former chairman, pled guilty in June 2012 to a federal charge of bank fraud, involving two personal loans, and a second criminal charge involving a violation of the District of Columbia’s campaign finance laws. The charge against Michael A. Brown involves a scheme in which he admitted taking the cash payments in return for his assistance in winning the District of Columbia government’s approval for a company that was seeking to be classified as a Certified Business Enterprise, a designation that would create potentially lucrative business opportunities; Brown also agreed to help the company with government contracting opportunities. In a second scheme, Brown admitted concealing the true source of $20,000 that was secretly contributed to his failed bid in 2007 for a seat on the District of Columbia Council. Under the plea agreement, Brown will not be criminally prosecuted for this conduct. * * * “Today, Michael Brown became the third member of the D.C. Council to plead guilty to a felony in the last 18 months,” said U.S. Attorney Machen. “This prosecution should make clear that we will not allow the politics of pay to play to flourish in the District of Columbia. We will not tolerate the backroom deals, the secret payments, and the unreported cash that corrupt not only our elections and public officials but our entire system of government. Our work will not stop until we stamp out the show-me-the-money culture that has deprived the great citizens of the District of Columbia of the honest government that they so desperately want and deserve.” “Today, Mr. Brown took responsibility for his actions and admitted to accepting bribes and knowingly circumventing campaign finance laws,” said Special Agent in Charge Gallagher. “This case is not only one more example of an elected official violating the public trust for their own benefit, but it is also another example of the determination and resolve of law enforcement in putting an end to such activity. We will not stop our pursuit until public corruption is a thing of the past within the District of Columbia.” “IRS-Criminal Investigation is committed to providing its financial investigative expertise to work with our law enforcement partners in order to combat public corruption, such as Mr. Brown’s,” said Special Agent in Charge Kelly. “Today’s plea is a reminder that one’s status as a public official will not protect you from federal prosecution.” * * * Brown was elected as an at-large member of the District of Columbia Council in 2008 and took office in January 2009. He left office on January 2, 2013, following his defeat last November for re-election. Brown then launched a bid to win another at-large Council seat in a special election scheduled for April 23, 2013. However, he withdrew his candidacy on April 2, 2013, less than three weeks after he was confronted by law enforcement in the bribery scheme. Bribery Scheme According to a statement of offense signed by the government as well as the defendant, Brown’s at-large Council duties included acting as Chair of the Committee on Economic Development and Housing. The committee is responsible for matters related to economic, industrial, and commercial development. The bribery scheme focused largely on a special program run by the District of Columbia government to help its small local businesses become economically viable: the Certified Business Enterprise (CBE) program. Status as a CBE carries preferential procurement and contracting opportunities. To be eligible for this designation, businesses must meet certain requirements and be certified by the District of Columbia’s Department of Small and Local Business Development (DSLBD). Prior to July 11, 2012, Brown had discussions about obtaining assistance of $50,000 to $75,000 for Brown from a government contractor. Brown expected to assist the government contractor with its business if the contractor provided such financial assistance to Brown. These discussions led to a series of meetings with two undercover FBI agents, posing as employees of a Maryland company that wanted CBE approval and contracting opportunities. Between July 2012 and March 2013, Brown met in person with one or both of the undercover agents a total of eight times. He communicated primarily with an agent described in the court documents as “Undercover Employee 1” or “UCE-1.” He was in contact with this undercover agent on more than 30 separate days, in person, by phone, or by text, frequently seeking payment, in whole or in part, for the efforts he was making on the company’s behalf. Indeed, over the months, Brown made calls on the company’s behalf to the director of the Department of Small and Local Business Development, introduced the undercover agents to a contractor at a symposium he sponsored, and took other actions meant to speed through the company’s attempts to win approval as a CBE. He continued these efforts even after his defeat in the November 2012 election. In January 2013, the Department of Small and Local Business Development did a site visit for the company’s application. According to the statement of offense, the payments were made during these meetings: July 11, 2012: Brown met UCE-1 at a Washington, D.C. restaurant. Brown accepted $15,000 in cash as part of a promised amount of $50,000 for Brown’s efforts to use his official position to assist the company in becoming a CBE and obtaining contracting opportunities. The cash was in denominations of $100 bills and in a duffel bag with a Washington Nationals baseball hat and two Nationals T-shirts. Brown referred to the cash payment as a loan, but UCE-1 said that he could keep the money. During subsequent discussions with the undercover agents, Brown occasionally referred to the payments as a “loan.” However, Brown understood that he was not expected to repay the money. No loan documents were ever drafted—and no loan terms were ever discussed—between Brown and the undercover agents. August 7, 2012: Brown met with UCE-1 at the Washington, D.C. restaurant and accepted an additional $10,000 in cash in exchange for continuing to assist the company in obtaining approval of its CBE application and contracting opportunities. The cash was in denominations of $100 bills and placed inside a Washington Redskins coffee mug. UCE-1 stated that Brown would get “the other 25” upon approval, and Brown said, “Or north.” Brown said he would call the Department of Small and Local Business Development after the company submitted the necessary paperwork for the CBE application and aim to have the application moved “to the top of the pile.” August 28, 2012: Brown again met with UCE-1 at the Washington, D.C. restaurant and accepted $5,000 in cash in exchange for Brown’s assistance with the CBE application and contracting opportunities. The cash was in denominations of $100 bills and in a silver coffee mug. Brown said he would continue efforts to move the company’s application as quickly as possible. November 29, 2012: Brown hosted his economic development symposium and introduced the two undercover agents to the director of the Department of Small and Local Business Development concerning the company’s CBE application. Brown also introduced the undercover agents to a local businessman, who, according to Brown, facilitated financing for contractors. That night, Brown met UCE-1 at the Washington, D.C. restaurant and accepted another $5,000 in cash as payment for his assistance with the CBE application and contracting opportunities. The cash was in denominations of $100 bills and in an envelope. March 14, 2013: Brown met the two undercover agents at a conference room at a Washington, D.C. hotel after being told that the company was pleased with how quickly its application was moving along and ready to make its final payment. During the meeting, Brown accepted $15,000 in cash as fulfillment of the company’s promise to pay $50,000 to Brown for assistance in obtaining CBE approval and government contracting opportunities. Brown also accepted a “bonus” of $5,000 cash for Brown’s past official acts on behalf of the company and future influence if Brown were re-elected to public office. The cash was in denominations of $100 bills and wrapped with a rubber band. At the end of the meeting, law enforcement agents entered the room to announce their presence and seized the $20,000 in cash from Brown. The company subsequently withdrew its CBE application. Campaign Finance Scheme In the spring of 2007, Brown was a candidate in a special election for the Ward 4 seat on the D.C. Council. Around that time, he met with a business owner, who is identified as “Co-Conspirator 1” in the statement of offense. Brown sought a campaign contribution but understood that Co-Conspirator 1 would not contribute in a public manner because certain business activities required support for other candidates, based on various political dynamics. Brown understood that the contribution from Co-Conspirator 1 would be publicly disclosed as having been contributed in the name of another person. He also understood from his discussion that it would exceed the limits on the amount that an individual could contribute to a political campaign committee. At the end of the meeting, Co-Conspirator 1 told Brown that Brown would hear from somebody to arrange the contribution. Following this meeting, Brown was contacted by Eugenia C. Harris, another business owner, in the District of Columbia. Then, as agreed upon by Brown, Harris, and Co-Conspirator 1, a series of bank transfers began taking place. Brown understood that a total of $20,000 originated from Co-Conspirator 1. Harris sent two wire transfers, of $10,000 each, to Brown’s personal bank account. Brown, in turn, contributed the funds to his campaign. Brown subsequently caused the campaign committee to file a form with the D.C. Office of Campaign Finance that publicly disclosed that Brown made an individual contribution of $25,000 to his political campaign committee, which Brown knew disguised the fact that Co-Conspirator 1 was the source of most of this money. Harris pled guilty on July 10, 2012, to conspiring to disguise the source of campaign contributions in federal and local elections, including the 2010 District of Columbia mayoral campaign. She pled guilty to one count of conspiring to violate federal campaign finance law and to obstruct justice; one count of engaging in fraud and making false statements; and one count of conspiring to violate District of Columbia campaign finance law. In announcing today’s guilty plea, U.S. Attorney Machen, Special Agent in Charge Gallagher, and Special Agent in Charge Kelly commended those who investigated the case for the FBI and IRS-CI. They also acknowledged the efforts of those who worked on the case from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, including Assistant U.S. Attorneys Michael K. Atkinson, David A. Last, and Bryan Seeley of the Fraud and Public Corruption Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Anthony D. Saler, of the Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section. Finally, they expressed thanks for assistance provided by Forensic Accountant Maria Boodoo; Paralegal Specialists Tasha Harris, Lenisse Edloe, and Nicole Wattelet, and Legal Assistant Angela Lawrence.
corruption HOUSTON—Tomas Roque, a former reserve deputy constable with Harris County Precinct 6, has entered a plea of guilty to one violation of the Hobbs Act, or extortion under color of official right, United States Attorney Kenneth Magidson announced today. Roque, of Houston, was arrested January 16, 2013, following the return of an indictment January 8, 2013. As part of his plea today, Roque admitted he obtained approximately $2,000 in exchange for providing protection for a vehicle he believed was transporting seven kilograms of cocaine. According to the plea agreement, a confidential source had asked Roque if he would provide protection for narcotics. On December 6, 2012, Roque—then a Precinct 6 constable in Harris County—arrived in uniform to provide the escort in his official capacity as a law enforcement officer. Seven kilograms of cocaine were located in the truck of the source that Roque had escorted to another location. Afterwards, the source paid Roque $2,000 for his service. U.S. District Judge Vanessa Gilmore, who accepted the guilty plea, has set sentencing for September 16, 2013, at which time Roque faces up to 20 years in prison and a possible $250,000 fine. He was permitted to remain on bond pending that hearing. The combined public corruption task force effort was conducted by the FBI, Texas Rangers, and Houston Police Department. Homeland Security Investigations and the Harris County Precinct 6 Constable’s Office assisted the investigation. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney James McAlister.
corruption GREENVILLE—United States Attorney Thomas G. Walker announced today that, Stephen A. Laroque, of Kinston, North Carolina, was convicted by a federal jury on all 12 counts involving theft from a non-profit receiving federal funds, money laundering, false statements to cover up a scheme, and filing false tax returns. Walker stated, “We always thought that this case was about stealing, pure and simple. The jury has now agreed.” Special Agent in Charge Jeannine A. Hammett, Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation stated, “Mr. Laroque improperly used money belonging to a non-profit organization, and he illegally concealed his actions.” Investigation of this case was conducted by the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation; the United States Department of Agriculture; Office of Inspector General-Investigations, Raleigh Office; the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorney, Dennis M. Duffy prosecuted the case.
corruption LITTLE ROCK—Christopher R. Thyer, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Arkansas, and Randall C. Coleman, Special Agent in Charge of the Little Rock Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, announced today that a federal grand jury indicted former Arkansas State Treasurer Martha Ann Shoffner, age 68, of Newport, on six counts of extortion under color of official right, one count of attempted extortion under color of official right, and seven counts of receipt of a bribe by an agent of a state government receiving federal funds. A forfeiture allegation of $4,020 is also included in the indictment. The statutory penalty for extortion and attempted extortion under color of official right, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1951(a), is not more than 20 years’ incarceration in the Bureau of Prisons with a possible find of up to $250,000 and not more than three years’ supervised release. The statutory penalty for receipt of a bribe by an agent of a state government receiving federal funds, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 666(a)(1)(B), is not more than 10 years’ incarceration in the Bureau of Prisons with a possible find of up to $250,000 and not more than three years’ supervised release. The investigation was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. An indictment contains only allegations. A defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption WASHINGTON—The president of a Louisiana towing company pleaded guilty today to using his personal and business accounts to fund campaign contribution checks in the names of others in support of two candidates for the U.S. Senate, Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Dana Boente announced. Arlen “Benny” Cenac Jr., 57, a resident of Houma, Louisiana, and the president and owner of Cenac Towing, pleaded guilty today to making false statements to the Federal Elections Commission (FEC). He faces a maximum penalty of five years in prison when he is sentenced on September 5, 2013, before U.S. District Judge Carl Barbier. “Today’s plea marks the second campaign finance conviction in a week and is one of many such cases brought throughout the nation,” said Acting Assistant Attorney General Raman. “Mr. Cenac’s crime undermined the cornerstones of campaign finance laws, and his conviction demonstrates our resolve to hold accountable anyone who corrupts our electoral process.” “Mr. Cenac, in an effort to increase his political contributions, structured his financial transactions and created false documents,” said U.S. Attorney Boente. “This prosecution should serve as a warning to people who attempt to hide their identity and make contributions in excess of legal limits.” According to the plea documents, Cenac obtained cashier’s checks using his personal and corporate funds in names of individuals other than himself, including people he knew professionally, personally, or through family relations. Cenac neither sought nor obtained the permission of the individuals he listed as remitters on the cashier’s checks. He then submitted the checks as campaign contributions to the campaigns of two U.S. Senate candidates, causing the campaigns to submit materially false information regarding the source and the amount of the contributions to the FEC. The case was investigated by the FBI’s New Orleans Division. Trial Attorney Tracee Plowell of the Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel Friel of the Eastern District of Louisiana are prosecuting the case on behalf of the United States.
corruption In Del Rio this afternoon, former Maverick County Precinct Two Commissioner Rodolfo Bainet Heredia, age 54, of Eagle Pass, Texas, pleaded guilty to federal charges in connection with an alleged bribery, kickback, and bid-rigging scheme, announced United States Attorney Robert Pitman and FBI Special Agent in Charge Armando Fernandez. Appearing before United States District Judge Alia Moses, Heredia pleaded guilty to one count of receiving a bribe by an agent of an organization receiving federal funds. By pleading guilty, Heredia admitted that in 2010 and 2011, he manipulated the bidding process to guarantee that contractors he chose would be awarded Maverick County construction contracts. Furthermore, Heredia admitted that he instructed the private contractors to submit inflated bids to Maverick County in order to ensure the availability of sufficient funds to perform the construction work, make a profit, and also to pay him bribes. According to court records, Heredia collected thousands of dollars in bribes while Maverick County suffered losses estimated between $200,000 and $400,000 as a result of Heredia’s scheme. Heredia, who has remained in federal custody since his arrest last October, faces up to 10 years in federal prison and a maximum $250,000 fine. In addition, Heredia has agreed to pay any and all restitution to be determined by the court resulting from his illegal conduct as Maverick County Commissioner in 2010 and 2011 as well as any and all federal taxes owed to the United States for calendar years 2010, 2011, and 2012. Sentencing is scheduled for 9:00 a.m. on November 25, 2013. This ongoing investigation is being conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Texas Department of Public Safety. Individuals who have first-hand information about corruption, fraud, or bribery related to Maverick County are urged to contact the FBI at (210) 225-6741. Assistant United States Attorney Michael Galdo is prosecuting this case on behalf of the government.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—A second superseding indictment was unsealed today against former Philadelphia Police Officers Jonathan Garcia, 23, and Sydemy Joanis, 27, both of Philadelphia, charging them with conspiracy to commit Hobbs Act robbery, Hobbs Act robbery, attempted Hobbs Act robbery, and carrying firearms during and in relation to crimes of violence. Garcia is also charged with distribution of heroin. The charges against Joanis were added to a superseding indictment against Garcia. Joanis was arrested this morning. Garcia was arrested on June 20, 2012, and remains in federal custody. The charges were announced today by United States Attorney Zane David Memeger, FBI Special Agent in Charge Edward Hanko, and Philadelphia Police Commissioner Charles Ramsey. According to the second superseding indictment, between December 2009 and June 19, 2012, while working as Philadelphia Police Officers assigned to the 17th Police District, Garcia and Joanis conspired to rob suspected drug dealers of the cash proceeds of their narcotics trafficking. It is alleged that they engaged in this scheme while on active duty, using their Philadelphia Police patrol car, uniform, loaded service pistol, and handcuffs to commit the robberies. The indictment alleges that Garcia and Joanis utilized a confidential source (“Person #1”) to participate in the robbery of suspected drug dealers by purchasing narcotics from the suspected drug dealers. Garcia and Joanis allegedly provided Person #1 with money; instructed Person #1 to meet with suspected drug dealers inside their cars; and further instructed Person #1 to leave inside the cars a small amount of the drugs, usually cocaine base (“crack cocaine”), that Person #1 purchased. After Person #1 exited the suspected drug dealers’ cars, it is alleged that defendants Garcia and Joanis initiated bogus traffic stops on the individual and, upon finding the drugs purposefully left behind by Person #1, conducted searches of the individuals and their cars, arrested the individuals, and stole some or all of the money that they recovered. Garcia and Joanis allegedly compensated Person #1 with money or narcotics. “The defendants’ alleged conduct in this case strikes at the very heart of the public trust that our citizens should have for our police officers,” said U.S. Attorney Memeger. “It is a priority of my office to investigate and prosecute corrupt officers who taint their badges by using their power and authority to victimize others rather than to serve and protect the community.” “We will continue to aggressively pursue any officer that commits criminal acts to rid the Department of individuals who don’t belong,” said Commissioner Ramsey. “Our Internal Affairs Investigators have been working independently and cohesively with our federal partners to accomplish this task. Corrupt cops don’t represent the honor or integrity that our Department or Law Enforcement stands for, and therefore they will be held accountable at the highest level.” “Illegal conduct by police officers undermines the public trust, harming law enforcement at every level,” said Special Agent in Charge Hanko. “These charges underscore the FBI’s commitment to investigating allegations of criminal activity, no matter who is involved.” If convicted of all charges, each defendant faces a mandatory minimum sentence of 30 years in prison with a maximum sentence of life. The case was investigated by the FBI and the Philadelphia Police Department and is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Kevin R. Brenner. An indictment or information is an accusation. A defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption ATLANTA—Jerome Oberlton and Mahendra Patel have been arraigned for allegedly receiving kickback payments in exchange for Oberlton using his influence as chief information officer for Atlanta Public Schools to award a $780,000 computer project. “As the chief information officer for APS, Oberlton was entrusted with overseeing a program designed to centralize student data,” said United States Attorney Yates. “Rather than ensuring that venders were selected based upon what was best for the school system, the defendants are charged with using Oberlton’s public position to line their private pockets.” “Abusing one’s position of public trust for personal gain should not and will not be tolerated,” stated Mark F. Giuliano, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office. “The FBI, in designating public corruption matters as its number one criminal programs priority, asks that anyone with information regarding such activity to contact their nearest FBI field office.” “What started as a friendship between Mr. Patel and Mr. Oberlton resulted in them lining their pockets with funds obtained illegally through kickbacks,” stated Veronica Hyman-Pillot, Special Agent in Charge, IRS-Criminal Investigation. “We are committed to ‘following the money trail’ to ensure that those who engage in these illegal activities are vigorously investigated and brought to justice.” According to United States Attorney Yates, the indictment, and information presented in court: Jerome Oberlton was the chief information officer (CIO) for Atlanta Public Schools (APS) between June 2004 and August 2007 and had overall management responsibility for APS’s information technology program. In January 2007, APS issued a request for proposal for a data warehousing project for the school system. The project’s intent was to centralize information relating to APS operations, including student information, by storing it digitally in a secure, easily accessible manner. The indictment charges that from the start of the project in January 2007, Oberlton influenced the request for proposal process and ultimately caused the winning bidder to be selected in exchange for kickbacks paid to Oberlton and Patel, who was an acquaintance of Oberlton. In order to hide the bribes, Oberlton created Global Technology Partners and later Global Technology Services and funneled the bribe payments through these shell companies. Oberlton was able to conceal his ownership of Global Technology Partners and Global Technology Services from APS. In contrast, the kickbacks to Patel were disguised as sales commissions for non-existent consulting work. The computer company ultimately paid approximately $60,000 in bribes to Oberlton and Patel for nearly six months, and in return, the IT company received almost $800,000 in APS project work. Oberlton, 47, of Dallas, Texas, and Patel, 45, of Kennesaw, Georgia, were indicted on May 28, 2013. The defendants are charged with conspiracy to defraud APS, which carries a maximum term of five years in prison and a fine of $250,000. They also are charged with conspiracy under color of official right, a money laundering conspiracy, mail fraud, and wire fraud, which each carry a maximum term of 20 years in prison and a fine of $250,000. Oberlton additionally is charged with bribery and money laundering, which each carry a statutory maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. In determining the actual sentence, the court will consider the United States Sentencing Guidelines, which are not binding but provide appropriate sentencing ranges for most offenders. The defendants made their initial appearances on June 4, 2013, before United States Magistrate Judge Russell Vineyard and were released on a $25,000 bond. The public is reminded that criminal charges are only allegations. A defendant is presumed innocent of the charges, and it will be the government’s burden to prove a defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt at trial. These cases are being investigated by special agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation. Assistant United States Attorneys Kurt R. Erskine and Jill E. Steinberg are prosecuting the case. For further information please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.Pressemails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia is www.justice.gov/usao/gan.
corruption BALTIMORE—Baltimore Police Officer Ashley Roane, age 25, of Pikesville, Maryland, has been charged with helping a heroin dealer by providing armed, uniformed security for drug transactions; offering advance notice of search warrants; and using police databases to check for informants. In addition, Roane and her roommate, Erica Hughes, also age 25, of Pikesville, have been charged with aggravated identity theft in connection with a scheme in which Roane used a police database to obtain the names of victims to be used to obtain fraudulent tax refunds. The criminal complaint was filed on May 28, 2013, and unsealed today upon the arrest of the defendants. The charges were announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and Commissioner Anthony W. Batts of the Baltimore Police Department. “The allegations represent an appalling violation of the public trust by an officer who took an oath to serve the public but used her police powers to serve herself,” said U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein. “The complaint alleges that Officer Ashley Roane agreed to help a drug dealer find a safe place to sell heroin in Baltimore and provide early warnings before police executed search warrants, that she provided armed security for drug deals while in uniform in her patrol car and that she checked a police database to identify informants. In a separate identity fraud scheme, she allegedly used a police database to obtain names, birth dates, and Social Security numbers that could be used to obtain fraudulent tax refunds from the IRS.” “This case was discovered and investigated by members of a joint Baltimore Police and FBI anti-corruption task force and re-emphasizes my commitment to rooting out corruption within the Baltimore Police Department,” said Police Commissioner Anthony W. Batts. My message to the people of our city is we are not finished—we will continue to relentlessly target corruption and misconduct among the ranks. A special note of thanks to all the police officers, agents, and prosecutors for their assistance with this investigation and their continued support.” According to the criminal complaint, on February 26, 2013, a confidential source provided information regarding alleged criminal activity being conducted by Baltimore Police officer Ashley Roane and her roommate Erica Hughes. The confidential source advised law enforcement that in the fall of 2012, Roane had spoken to the source regarding drug trafficking and had told the source that if the source, whom Roane believed was a large scale heroin trafficker in Baltimore, wanted to sell drugs in the area where she patrolled, Roane would provide the source with a location that is not heavily concentrated with police. Additionally, Roane told that source that she could provide the source with information regarding police activity, specifically when and where drug search warrants would be executed. The criminal complaint alleges that Roane provided assistance and protection to the confidential source in the source’s alleged drug trafficking. For example, on March 28, 2013, the criminal complaint alleges that Roane conducted a criminal check of one of the source’s alleged associates to see if that person was an informant or cooperator with the Baltimore Police Department. According to the complaint, Roane agreed that she would tell the confidential source if the person were an informant so that the source would not engage in a drug transaction with that person. Further, the criminal complaint alleges on the on April 30, 2013, while in uniform, armed with her service firearm, and in a marked Baltimore Police Department vehicle, Roane provided protection while the confidential source conducted a narcotics transaction involving a kilogram of heroin. The confidential source allegedly paid Roane $500 for her protection, and Roane agreed to provide such protection again in a future narcotics transaction involving multiple kilograms of heroin. According to the criminal complaint, Hughes and Roane believed that the confidential source also worked as a tax preparer, and they provided the personal information of more than 30 individuals, including names, dates of birth, and Social Security numbers, to the confidential source to prepare and submit false tax returns to the IRS in order to obtain fraudulent tax refunds. The criminal complaint alleges that Roane obtained the personal information from law enforcement databases through her position as a Baltimore Police officer. Roane faces a mandatory minimum sentence of 10 years in prison and a maximum sentence of life in prison for possession with intent to distribute heroin and a mandatory minimum sentence of five years in prison and a maximum of life in prison for possession of a gun in furtherance of a drug trafficking crime. Roane and Hughes face a mandatory sentence of two years in prison, consecutive to any other sentence imposed, for aggravated identity theft. The defendants will be detained pending an initial appearance which will be scheduled for Monday, June 3, 2013, in U.S. District Court in Baltimore. A criminal complaint is not a finding of guilt. An individual charged by indictment is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty at some later criminal proceedings. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI and Baltimore Police Department for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant United States Attorney Peter M. Nothstein, who is prosecuting the case.
corruption BIRMINGHAM—Federal prosecutors have charged the former commander of the West Alabama Narcotics Task Force with stealing at least $125,000 from suspected drug proceeds seized by the multi-agency task force, announced U.S. Attorney Joyce White Vance and FBI Special Agent in Charge Richard D. Schwein, Jr. The U.S. Attorney’s Office late Thursday filed a one-count information in U.S. District Court charging Jeffrey Lynn Snyder, 55, of Carrollton, with the theft from a program that received more than $10,000 in federal benefits within a one-year period. The U.S. Attorney’s Office also filed a plea agreement with Snyder in which he agrees to enter a guilty plea to the charge. According to the plea agreement, Snyder embezzled the money between June 2010 and June 2012, when he left the task force. “Most law enforcement officers serve their communities bravely and honorably each and every day,” Vance said. “Unfortunately, this defendant violated his oath, the law, and the public trust he had been granted. That cannot be tolerated. The public must be able to trust its law enforcement officers.” “Mr. Snyder tarnished the badge he wore and violated the trust of the people of West Alabama,” Schwein said. “This case demonstrates our commitment to enforce the law and hold individuals accountable, regardless of rank, position, or status. Fortunately, this is an isolated incident, and we should recognize the efforts of law enforcement officers throughout the region who continue to risk their lives on a daily basis so that the public can be safe,” he said. The West Alabama Narcotics Task Force is staffed with officers from the Tuscaloosa Police Department, Tuscaloosa County Sheriff’s Office, Northport Police Department, and University of Alabama Police Department. It is tasked to investigate all drug crimes in Tuscaloosa County. Snyder was a 29-year member of the Tuscaloosa Police Department, retiring as a captain in December 2012. He was detailed to the narcotics task force in 1989 and became its commander in June 2002, according to his plea agreement. Task force members periodically seized money suspected to be proceeds of illegal drug transactions and turned the money in to Snyder, who was responsible for depositing the money into bank accounts while condemnation proceedings were pursued through court, according to the plea agreement. Snyder was entrusted to receive the seized money, log it in task force ledger books, and deposit it in task force bank accounts. Snyder began embezzling from the seized funds no later than June 2010. He executed his scheme “by pocketing some or all of the funds seized during various arrests and then failing to correctly account for those funds,” the plea agreement states. The agreement between the government and Snyder is a “binding plea agreement” in which both sides agree to an 18-month prison sentence, but the court must still approve the agreement. The FBI investigated the case, with assistance from the West Alabama Narcotics Task Force. Assistant U.S. Attorney Henry Cornelius is prosecuting the case.
corruption Preet Bharara, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, announced that James Monahan, the owner of a real estate investment company called Panam Management Group Inc. and a former sergeant in the New York City Police Department (NYPD), pled guilty today in Manhattan federal court to wire fraud, mail fraud, and conspiracy to commit wire and mail fraud in connection with his participation in a fraudulent real estate scheme. As part of that scheme, Monahan misappropriated approximately $4.7 million he obtained from investors for a real estate development project he claimed to be constructing in the Dominican Republic. The real estate project was never developed and investors lost all of their money. Monahan pled guilty before U.S. District Judge John G. Koeltl. Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said, “Like the real estate development project he promoted, James Monahan was a phony who exploited his past association with the NYPD to woo investors, only to trade that badge of pride for a badge of fraud. There is a price to be paid for defrauding investors, and this office will continue its work to prosecute and punish bogus professionals.” According to the indictment, statements made during today’s guilty plea proceeding, and a complaint previously unsealed in Manhattan federal court: Beginning in early 2008, Monahan negotiated with another real estate investment company to solicit investors for a project he claimed to be constructing in the Dominican Republic. During the negotiations, Monahan repeatedly touted his prior service with the NYPD as proof of his trustworthiness and as a reason to invest in the project. In connection with the project, Monahan and a co-conspirator, Edward Adams, who was a New York-based attorney, executed agreements that required investor funds to be deposited into escrow accounts that were to be managed by Adams. The agreements required that the majority of the funds be deposited in an account to which the defendants would not have access. From October 2008 through February 2009, approximately $4.7 million in investor funds were deposited into the escrow accounts. Shortly after the deposits were made, the funds were improperly withdrawn from the account by Adams without disclosure to investors. In an effort to hide the fact that the funds had been removed from the escrow account, Monahan mailed a forged letter in May 2009 on the stationery of a major bank to investors claiming that their money was safely deposited with that bank. However, by June 2009, all the investor funds had been taken from the escrow accounts. At that point, almost no work had been performed on the purported project in the Dominican Republic, and no money was returned to investors. * * * Monahan, 43, of New York, New York, pled guilty to one count each of wire fraud, mail fraud, and conspiracy to commit wire and mail fraud, each of which carries a maximum potential penalty of 20 years in prison and a fine of $250,000, or twice the gross gain or loss from the offense. Monahan is scheduled to be sentenced by Judge Koeltl on October 4, 2013, at 10 a.m. Adams is scheduled to go to trial starting July 8, 2013. Mr. Bharara praised the work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. This case was brought in coordination with President Barack Obama’s Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force, on which Mr. Bharara serves as a co-chair of the Securities and Commodities Fraud Working Group. The task force was established to wage an aggressive, coordinated, and proactive effort to investigate and prosecute financial crimes. With more than 20 federal agencies, 94 U.S. attorneys’ offices, and state and local partners, it is the broadest coalition of law enforcement, investigatory, and regulatory agencies ever assembled to combat fraud. Since its formation, the task force has made great strides in facilitating increased investigation and prosecution of financial crimes; enhancing coordination and cooperation among federal, state, and local authorities; addressing discrimination in the lending and financial markets; and conducting outreach to the public, victims, financial institutions, and other organizations. Over the past three fiscal years, the Justice Department has filed nearly 10,000 financial fraud cases against nearly 15,000 defendants including more than 2,900 mortgage fraud defendants. For more information on the task force, please visit www.stopfraud.gov. This case is being handled by the Office’s Securities and Commodities Fraud Task Force. Assistant U.S. Attorney John T. Zach is in charge of the prosecution.
corruption Former Cameron County District Attorney Armando Villalobos faces federal prison time after a jury convicted him of federal charges related to a bribery and extortion scheme in South Texas, announced United States Attorney Robert Pitman and Federal Bureau of Investigation Special Agent in Charge Armando Fernandez, San Antonio Division. Late Friday evening, jurors convicted Villalobos of one count of violating the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) Act, one count of conspiracy to violate the RICO Act, and five counts of extortion. Jurors acquitted Villalobos of two counts of extortion. Evidence presented at trial revealed that from October 2, 2006 through May 3, 2012, Villalobos and others were involved in a scheme to illegally generate income for themselves and others through a pattern of bribery and extortion, favoritism, improper influence, personal self-enrichment, self-dealing, concealment, and conflict of interest. Jurors found that Villalobos solicited and accepted over $100,000 in bribes and kickbacks in the form of cash and campaign contributions from South Texas attorney and co-defendant Eduardo “Eddie” Lucio and others in return for favorable acts of prosecutorial discretion, including minimizing charging decisions, pretrial diversion agreements, agreements on probationary matters, and case dismissals. Furthermore, Villalobos solicited and arranged for private counsel, including Lucio, to handle civil and forfeiture matters associated with criminal matters pending in the Office of the District and County Attorney of Cameron County. Villalobos, who remains on bond, faces up to 20 years in federal prison per count at sentencing scheduled for 8:30 a.m. on August 26, 2013, before U.S. District Judge Andrew Hanen in Brownsville. Eduardo Lucio remains under indictment charged with one count of violating the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) Act, one count of conspiracy to violate the RICO Act, and three counts of extortion. He is currently on bond awaiting a trial date. This investigation was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Drug Enforcement Administration, Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation, and the Brownsville Police Department. Southern District of Texas Assistant United States Attorney Michael Wynne and Western District of Texas Assistant United States Attorney Greg Surovic are prosecuting this case on behalf of the Government.
corruption CHICAGO—A former Illinois prison guard living in Arkansas was arrested on federal charges for allegedly illegally selling eight firearms, including five assault rifles, to an individual he knew was a convicted felon because they met when the individual was an inmate and they later remained in contact. The defendant, Dwayne Meeks, was arrested yesterday by FBI agents following an undercover investigation in which the former inmate, posing as a firearms trafficker, was cooperating with federal agents. Meeks, 48, of Little Rock, Arkansas, and formerly of Chicago and Joliet, was charged with one count each of dealing firearms without a federal license and selling firearms to a convicted felon in a criminal complaint that was unsealed following his arrest. He was ordered to remain in federal custody pending a detention hearing at 1:15 p.m. Monday before U.S. Magistrate Judge Sidney I. Schenkier in Federal Court in Chicago. According to the complaint affidavit, Meeks and the former inmate met in Chicago in May 2012, and Meeks began discussing selling various firearms and showing the cooperating individual photos of the weapons on his cell phone and via e-mails. They continued their discussions about arranging a deal involving multiple firearms through the next two months. On July 14, 2012, Meeks and the cooperating former inmate met in a suburban Cook County Forest Preserve where Meeks allegedly sold eight high-powered firearms to the individual for $18,000, consisting of $15,000 for the weapons from Meek’s supplier and $3,000 for Meeks’ delivery fee. FBI agents conducted surveillance and monitored audio and video-recorded transmissions of the alleged transaction, including during the transfer of the weapons from the back of Meeks’ truck to the trunk of a car driven by the cooperating individual. On more than one occasion, Meeks described the assault rifles as “tact’d out,” meaning they included such features as night scopes and laser sights, the affidavit states. The weapons Meeks allegedly sold and were seized were: two .223 caliber assault rifles, a 5.56 caliber assault rifle, a .50 caliber assault rifle with an ammunition drum attached, a 7.62 caliber assault rifle, a .45 caliber semi-automatic pistol, a 9mm semi-automatic pistol, and a .22 caliber rifle. Meeks allegedly discussed selling additional firearms to the former inmate but a deal planned for the end of July 2012 did not occur following the mass shooting at a theater in Aurora, Colorado. They allegedly discussed another future firearms transaction, but Meeks consistently reported the difficulty he was having finding firearms, according to the complaint. In early January of this year, Meeks allegedly complained to the former inmate about the continued difficulty finding firearms after the school shooting in Newtown, Connecticut in December. During the last two weeks, Meeks and the former inmate allegedly discussed Meeks arriving in Chicago yesterday to sell the cooperating individual at least eight additional firearms. Meeks was arrested yesterday when he arrived at the same Forest Preserve location where they met last summer, and three AR15 assault rifles that he allegedly brought to sell were seized. The arrest and charge were announced today by Gary S. Shapiro, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois, and Cory B. Nelson, Special Agent in Charge of the Chicago office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Chicago Police Department task force officers assisted in the investigation. Dealing firearms without a federal license carries a maximum sentence of five years in prison, selling firearms to a convicted felon carries a maximum of 10 years, and each count carries a $250,000 maximum fine. If convicted, the court must impose a reasonable sentence under federal statutes and the advisory United States Sentencing Guidelines. The government is being represented by Assistant U.S. Attorney Ronald DeWald. The public is reminded that a complaint is not evidence of guilt and that the defendant is presumed innocent and entitled to fair trial at which the government has the burden of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption WASHINGTON—Following a two-week jury trial, F. Harvey Whittemore, a prominent lawyer and former lobbyist in Nevada, was convicted today of making unlawful campaign contributions to a Senate campaign committee in 2007 and causing a false statement to be made to the Federal Election Commission (FEC), announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and Daniel G. Bogden, U.S. Attorney for the District of Nevada. “Today, a jury convicted Mr. Whittemore of using dozens of straw donors to evade contribution limits so he could make good on a campaign fundraising promise,” said Acting Assistant Attorney General Raman. “The cornerstones of our campaign finance laws are contribution limits and transparency, and Mr. Whittemore’s crime was designed to undermine both. Today’s verdict demonstrates our resolve to aggressively pursue those who use illegal tricks to corrupt our democratic process.” “Persons who knowingly violate campaign contribution laws will be investigated and prosecuted to the full extent of the law,” said U.S. Attorney Bogden. “Campaign laws exist to level the playing field. The public deserves to know that these laws are not just ‘on the books’ and that persons with power and money who abuse the system for their own benefit will be prosecuted.” Whittemore, 59, of Reno, Nevada, was convicted of one count of making excessive campaign contributions, one count of making contributions in the name of others, and one count of causing a materially false statement to be made to the FEC, all felony offenses. According to the indictment and evidence presented at trial, during 2007, Whittemore was the chief executive of Wingfield Nevada Group and was a registered lobbyist in Nevada. On February 21, 2007, Whittemore met with a U.S. senator at a hotel in Las Vegas and agreed to raise $150,000 in contributions for the senator’s campaign committee by March 31, 2007, which marked the end of an FEC-mandated quarterly reporting period. Federal laws prohibit persons from hiding their true identity when contributing to federal political campaigns and also set limits on the amount that an individual can contribute to a campaign. In 2007, the maximum individual contribution was $2,300 for a primary election and $2,300 for a general election; thus, the maximum for one candidate was $4,600. Aware of the strict limits on individual federal campaign contributions, Whittemore devised a scheme to unlawfully use about 29 family members, employees, and their spouses as conduits to funnel more than $130,000 of his own money to the campaign. This scheme allowed Whittemore to make an individual campaign donation to the campaign committee in excess of the limits established by federal law. Whittemore concealed the scheme from the FEC, the senator, and the senator’s campaign committee. In March 2007, Whittemore solicited family members, his employees, and their spouses to make the maximum campaign donations to the senator’s campaign and Whittemore reimbursed or advanced the money to the contributors with personal checks and wire transfers. Whittemore also paid the contributors additional money on top of the reimbursements. If a conduit contributed $4,600, Whittemore reimbursed them $5,000; likewise, if a couple contributed $9,200, he paid the couple $10,000. On or about March 28, 2007, Whittemore caused one of his employees to transmit $138,000 in contributions to the senator’s campaign committee, the vast majority of which were conduit contributions that Whittemore had personally funded in order to satisfy his pledge to the senator. On April 15, 2007, the senator’s campaign then unknowingly filed a false report with the FEC stating that the conduits had made the contributions, when in fact, Whittemore had made them. Whittemore is free on a personal recognizance bond pending sentencing, which is scheduled for September 23, 2013. Whittemore faces up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine on each count. The case was investigated by the FBI and is being prosecuted by Trial Attorney Eric G. Olshan of the Public Integrity Section in the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and First Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven W. Myhre of the District of Nevada.
corruption WASHINGTON—Two former police officers with the Police of Puerto Rico were convicted of attempting to extort a commonwealth defendant and soliciting bribe payments of $50,000, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney Rosa Emilia Rodríguez-Vélez of the District of Puerto Rico. Abimael Arroyo-Cruz, 30, of Rio Grande, Puerto Rico, was convicted by a jury on charges including conspiracy to commit federal programs bribery, bribery, conspiracy to commit extortion, and attempted extortion. Josue Becerril-Ramos, 36, of Carolina, Puerto Rico, pleaded guilty to the same counts during trial. According to court records and evidence presented at trial, Arroyo and Becerril arrested eight individuals for possession of unregistered firearms and marijuana on August 2, 2012. The officers then solicited from one individual a bribe payment of $50,000 to have his case dismissed. Beginning on September 11, 2012, both officers spoke with the individual multiple times over the telephone, discussing payment details and strategies for dismissing the individual’s case. Arroyo and Becerril collected approximately $35,000 of the $50,000 in two different payment installments. In exchange for the bribes, Arroyo and Becerril devised a plan whereby the officers would misidentify a co-defendant in court, leading to dismissal of that defendant’s case. When asked under oath at the preliminary hearing to identify the defendant, Arroyo instead identified a co-defendant. Unbeknownst to the officers, the individuals who dropped off the payments were cooperating with federal law enforcement. The case was investigated by the FBI’s San Juan Field Office. The case was prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Menaka Kalaskar and Marquest J. Meeks of the Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Timothy Henwood of the District of Puerto Rico.
corruption MCALLEN, TX—Four members of the now-defunct Panama Unit have been convicted, United States Attorney Kenneth Magidson announced today. Jonathan Trevino, 29; Claudio Mata, 35; and Eric Alcantar, 29, all of McAllen; and Salvador Arguello, 34, of Edinburg, entered guilty pleas just a short time ago before United States District Judge Randy Crane. Also pleading guilty today was a fifth individual, Gerardo Mendoza-Duran, 30, of Pharr, who was a member of the Hidalgo County Sheriff’s Office (HCSO) but not part of the Panama Unit itself. Trevino, Arguello, Mata, and Alcantar entered guilty pleas to one count of conspiring to possess with the intent to distribute more than five kilograms of cocaine, while Mendoza-Duran pleaded guilty to attempting to aid and abet the possession with the intent to distribute more than five kilograms of cocaine. From 2010 to December of 2012, Trevino, Arguello, Mata, and Alcantar utilized their positions as law enforcement officers to steal narcotics and currency. All four were members of the Panama Unit which was a drug task force operated by the HCSO and composed of HCSO deputies and officers with the Mission Police Department. The investigation revealed the defendants, upon learning the location of drugs and currency, would use their positions to gain entry into residences and vehicles in order to steal the contraband. Subsequently, the narcotics would be sold to other traffickers for a profit. Additionally, in exchange for thousands of dollars, Trevino and Mendoza-Duran agreed to use their law enforcement positions to escort multi-kilogram quantities of cocaine as it traveled through Hidalgo County. Seven others are also charged in relation to this case. Their cases remain pending and they are considered innocent unless proven guilty though due process of law. All five convicted today face a minimum of 10 years and up to life in prison, along with a potential fine up to $10 million. U.S. District Judge Randy Crane, who accepted the pleas, has set sentencing for September 10, 2013. The investigation leading to the charges was conducted by the Drug Enforcement Administration, FBI, and Homeland Security Investigations. Assistant United States Attorneys James Sturgis and Anibal Alaniz are prosecuting the case.
corruption Diane M. Hathaway, a former Michigan Supreme Court Justice, was sentenced today to one year and one day in federal prison after having pleaded guilty in January to committing bank fraud in connection with a property in Grosse Pointe Park, Michigan, United States Attorney Barbara L. McQuade announced today. McQuade was joined in the announcement by Special Agent in Charge Robert D. Foley, III of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette. At the time of the plea before United States District Judge John Corbett O’Meara, Hathaway, 58, of Grosse Pointe, Michigan, admitted that between 2010 and 2011, she knowingly engaged in a scheme to defraud ING Direct bank by concealing assets from the bank to qualify for a “short sale.” A short sale is a forgiveness of debt by the bank to a borrower who claims financial hardship. Hathaway was also ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $90,000. United States Attorney McQuade said, “We have made mortgage fraud a priority in this district because of the harm this crime causes to our housing markets in the aggregate. Homeowners who play by the rules should know that those who don’t will be held accountable, no matter who they are.” Michigan Attorney General Schuette said, “Public corruption scandals have damaged the public’s trust in government and tarnished our state’s reputation. No matter who you are or what position you hold, the same rules apply. I supported U.S. Attorney Barbara McQuade’s request for prison time, and I appreciate her efforts, along with those of FBI Special Agent in Charge Bob Foley, to bring this case to a close.” Robert Foley, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI said, “Regardless of a person’s stature or position in life, we must all follow the same set of rules. In this case, an individual in a prominent position of public trust made extremely poor choices that have resulted in criminal activity. The FBI is committed to stopping these illegal acts.” This case was investigated by the FBI, with assistance from Michigan Attorney General’s Office.
corruption A former Highland Park Police officer pleaded guilty today to conspiring with three other police officers to protect shipments of cocaine and to take bribes in return for not appearing in court as a witness, U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade announced today. McQuade was joined in the announcement by FBI Special Agent in Charge Robert D. Foley, III. During a hearing before U.S. District Judge Avern Cohn, Anthony Bynum, 29, of Highland Park, Michigan, admitted that he and another Highland Park Police officer accepted a $10,000 bribe from a man they had arrested on gun charges in return for agreeing not to appear as witnesses at the man’s November 7, 2012 criminal trial. Bynum also admitted that in late 2012 and early 2013, he agreed with three other Highland Park Police officers to take money in exchange for protecting shipments of cocaine. Bynum admitted that on November 15, 2012, he and another Highland Park Police officer protected and delivered a shipment of what they believed were two kilograms of cocaine in exchange for $1,500 in cash. Bynum further admitted that on January 23, 2013, he protected two cars containing what he believed to be a total of four kilograms of cocaine. Bynum brought his police badge and gun to protect the shipments. Two other Highland Park Police officers drove the cars containing what they believed to be cocaine. Later, Bynum accepted $1,500 in cash from an FBI informant for his work in delivering and protecting the drug shipment. United States Attorney McQuade said, “Police officers who take bribes have no place in law enforcement. They will be prosecuted for violating their duties to serve the public.” FBI Special Agent in Charge Foley stated, “Police officers who swear an oath to serve and protect must be held to the highest standards of ethics and integrity. The FBI is committed to ensuring those standards are maintained and, in cases of unlawful abuse, will pursue and prosecute those responsible.” Based on his guilty plea and felony conviction for conspiring to commit bribery and extortion, Bynum is facing a maximum of five years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000. Thus far, three out of the four former Highland Park Police officers arrested for extortion and bribery in this investigation have pleaded guilty. The case was investigated by agents of the FBI. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney David A. Gardey.
corruption WASHINGTON—A former Chicago Police officer and two members of the Latin Kings street gang were sentenced to prison today in Hammond, Indiana federal court for racketeering conspiracy and related crimes. Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division and U.S. Attorney David Capp of the Northern District of Indiana made the announcement following the sentencing hearings before U.S. District Judge Rudy Lozano in the Northern District of Indiana. A former officer with the Chicago Police Department, Antonio C. Martinez, Jr., 40, of Chicago, was sentenced today to 144 months in prison after pleading guilty on November 18, 2011, to racketeering, drug, and robbery conspiracies and other related charges. According to court records, Martinez and another officer committed armed robberies on behalf of a Latin Kings gang member—in some instances while in uniform and driving police-issued vehicles. They stole drugs, weapons, and cash, and in some instances, they were given a portion of the funds they stole as payment for committing the armed robberies. Hiluterio Chavez, aka “Tails,” 37, of Chicago, was sentenced today to 240 months in prison after pleading guilty on January 24, 2012, to racketeering and drug conspiracies. Chavez, who became a Latin Kings member at an earlier age, admitted in court that he traveled with other Latin Kings leadership from the Chicago area to Texas to facilitate the organization of the Latin Kings in Texas and to ensure their allegiance to the Chicago Latin Kings. Among other crimes, Chavez participated in a robbery with Martinez and presented himself as a law enforcement officer. Jermaine Ellis, aka “J-Dub,” 21, of Chicago, was sentenced today to 205 months in prison after pleading guilty on July 30, 2010, to racketeering conspiracy. Ellis, who also became a Latin Kings member at an early age, admitted that while a juvenile he participated in the shooting deaths of James Walsh and Gonzalo Diaz in Griffith, Indiana, on February 25, 2007. Court records allege that the Latin Kings is a nationwide gang that originated in Chicago and has branched out throughout the United States. The Latin Kings is a well-organized street gang that has specific leadership and is composed of regions that include multiple chapters. The Latin Kings enforces its rules and promotes discipline among its members, prospects, and associates through murder, attempted murder, conspiracy to murder, assault, and threats against those who violate the rules or pose a threat to the Latin Kings. Members are required to follow the orders of higher-ranking members, including taking on assignments often referred to as “missions.” Twenty-three Latin Kings members and associates have been indicted in this case. Aside from Martinez, Ellis, and Chavez, 19 of the other defendants pleaded guilty and one remains a fugitive. This case was investigated by the FBI; the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives; the Drug Enforcement Administration; ICE-Homeland Security Investigations; the National Gang Intelligence Center; the Chicago Police Department; the Houston Police Department; the Griffith Police Department; the Highland Police Department; the Hammond Police Department; and the East Chicago Police Department. The case is being prosecuted by Joseph A. Cooley of the Criminal Division’s Organized Crime and Gang Section and David J. Nozick of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Indiana. Andrew Porter of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Illinois provided significant assistance.
corruption LITTLE ROCK—Patrick C. Harris, Attorney for the United States, acting under authority conferred by 28 U.S.C. § 515, and Federal Bureau of Investigation Special Agent in Charge Randall C. Coleman announced the sentencing of two Crittenden County men on a charge of conspiracy to commit election fraud. The individuals sentenced by District Judge Kristine Baker were former West Memphis City Councilman Phillip Wayne Carter, age 44, and former West Memphis Police Officer Sam Malone, age 32. These defendants entered guilty pleas to the conspiracy charge after waiving indictment and the filing of a felony information on September 5, 2012. In doing so, each acknowledged his participation in a conspiracy to bribe voters to influence absentee votes in the Arkansas District 54 primary, its runoff election, and the general election, all of which were held between February and July 2011. Phillip Carter was sentenced today to three years’ probation, with five months to be completed on home confinement. Carter will be restricted to his residence except for his employment. Carter may be subject to electronic monitoring at the discretion of the Probation Office. He was also fined $2,500 and ordered to complete 100 hours of community service. Finally, he has to pay a $100 special assessment. Sam Malone was sentenced in a hearing held May 21, 2013, to three years’ probation, the first 72 months of which will be spent on home confinement. Malone may be subject to electronic monitoring at the discretion of the Probation Office. Malone will be restricted to his home while on confinement except for the hours of his employment. He was also ordered to complete 100 hours of community service. Malone was also ordered to pay a special assessment of $100. As a result of the federal charges and guilty plea, Carter resigned from his position as a Crittenden County Juvenile Probation Officer and Malone resigned from his position as a West Memphis Police Department officer. “This is believed to be the first case in the United States in which state election law violations have been prosecuted under the Travel Act, which is 18 U.S.C. 1952(a)(3),” stated Harris. “The case essentially dismantled a corrupt election machine in Crittenden County that has been in place for many years. It resulted in the resignation of a member of the State House of Representatives, the resignation of a county Juvenile Probation officer, and the resignation of a West Memphis police officer. The defendants can no longer serve in any capacity as public officials. Carter was a member of the West Memphis City Counsel, and Malone was a Crittenden County Quorum Court member and Crittenden County School Board member.” “This case serves as an unfortunate reminder of how pervasive public corruption can be,” stated FBI Special Agent in Charge Randall C. Coleman. “Arkansans deserve to have both fair and honest elections and fair and honest public officials. I encourage anyone with a tip about public corruption in this state to contact our ArkTrust Public Corruption Task Force by calling the hotline at 501-221-8200 or by sending an e-mail to Little.Rock@ic.fbi.gov.” According to the felony information to which Malone and Carter pled guilty, Hudson Hallum, age 29, was elected to House Seat 54 on July 12, 2011. Kent Hallum, age 54, managed the finances and certain logistics of his son’s campaign for the District 54 seat, including the campaign’s effort to solicit and secure votes cast by absentee ballot. Hudson Hallum hired Carter, who was both a West Memphis City Councilman and a Crittenden County Juvenile Probation Officer, to implement the Hallum campaign’s absentee ballot strategy. Malone, who was a West Memphis Police officer, assisted Carter in implementing the Hallum campaign’s absentee ballot strategy. Hudson Hallum, along with others, declared his candidacy as a Democrat in the special primary election for House Seat 54, which took place on April 20, 2011. Because neither Hudson Hallum nor any other Democratic candidate obtained the required majority of votes in the special primary election, a special primary runoff election took place on May 10, 2011. Hudson Hallum was certified as the winner in the special primary runoff by eight votes. Hudson Hallum also won the special general election held on July 12, 2011, and was subsequently certified as the winner of the House District 54 special election. According to the felony information, Hudson Hallum and Kent Hallum tasked Carter, Malone, and others with identifying absentee ballot voters within District 54; obtaining and distributing absentee ballot applications to particular voters; determining when absentee ballots were mailed to absentee voters by the Crittenden County Clerk’s Office; and making contact with recipients of absentee ballots to assist those voters in completing the ballots. Once such absentee ballots were completed, the absentee voters typically placed their ballots in unsealed envelopes, which were retrieved by Carter, Malone, and others and then subsequently delivered to either Hudson Hallum or Kent Hallum for inspection to ensure that the absentee ballot votes had been cast for Hudson Hallum. After inspection by Hudson Hallum or Kent Hallum, the absentee ballots that contained votes for Hudson Hallum were sealed and mailed to the Crittenden County Clerk’s Office. If a ballot contained a vote for Hudson Hallum’s opponent, it was destroyed. At the hearing held September 5, 2012, the defendants admitted that certain absentee ballot voters received things of value in exchange for their votes being cast for Hudson Hallum. For example, in or about May 2011, Carter and Malone provided a chicken dinner to an individual in exchange for the absentee ballot votes of that individual and one other individual. Further, on or about May 4, 2011, Carter contacted Hudson Hallum about a family of eight who had requested a “family meal” in exchange for their absentee ballot votes being cast in favor of Hudson Hallum. Carter requested $20 from Hudson Hallum to pay for the food, to which request Hudson Hallum agreed. In addition, on or about May 5, 2011, Carter notified Hudson Hallum that some absentee ballot voters were “holding on” to their absentee ballots because they needed money for food. Hudson Hallum instructed Carter to obtain money for the absentee voters from Kent Hallum. Hudson Hallum further told Carter that $20 to $40 was too much to pay for one vote, but that this amount was acceptable to pay for the votes of multiple members of a household. On that same date, Hudson Hallum also told Carter, “We need to use that black limo and buy a couple of cases of some cheap vodka and whiskey to get people to vote.” Two days later, Carter and Kent Hallum spoke with an individual in Memphis, Tennessee, about getting a discounted price for the purchase of 100 half pints of vodka for the campaign. Kent Hallum and Hudson Hallum also waived indictment and pled guilty to the conspiracy charge on September 5, 2012. They are scheduled to appear before Judge Baker for sentencing on June 20, 2013. State charges are pending against Leroy Grant, Eric Cox, Lorenzo Parker, Amos Sanders, and Lisa Burns related to the election fraud scheme. They were filed by special prosecutor H.G. Foster, who was appointed to a circuit court judgeship in January 2013. The case is now being prosecuted by Pulaski and Perry County Prosecutor Larry Jegley. The investigation was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Arkansas State Police. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Tricia Harris and Angela Jegley.
corruption Dolores Reid, 53, of Southfield, the former director of state and federal programs for the River Rouge School District, was sentenced to five years in prison today by United States District Judge Bernard A. Friedman. Reid had been convicted of acceptance of a bribe and mail fraud by a federal jury in Detroit in November, 2012. The evidence presented during the trial showed that, in 2010 and 2011, Reid accepted thousands of dollars in cash for giving preferential treatment to a company that provided tutoring services to the River Rouge School District under the Supplementary Educational Services provision of the No Child Left Behind Act. This company received federal funds through the Michigan Department of Education, which subsequently recaptured the funds, causing the River Rouge School District to lose approximately $160,000. Among other things, Reid promoted a tutoring program for this company by falsely informing parents of students entering the River Rouge High School that the program was mandatory, when, in fact, it was not mandatory. “Corruption by public officials is never acceptable, but it is particularly egregious when an official steals money intended for the education of school children,” McQuade said. “Stealing education funds robs children of their future.” Special Agent in Charge Robert D. Foley, III stated, “Public officials who abuse their power and accept bribes will face severe consequences for their crimes. The FBI-led Detroit Area Public Corruption Task Force is committed to ensuring citizens have honest government.” The case was investigated by agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the U.S. Department of Education-Office of Inspector General, and the Michigan Attorney General’s Office.
corruption Linda Heyde, 59, of Marion, Illinois, pled guilty in United States District Court to three counts of theft and embezzlement from a local government that receives federal funds, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of Illinois, Stephen R. Wigginton, announced. Each count carries a maximum sentence of up to 10 years in prison, up to three years’ supervised release following any jail term, a $250,000 fine, a $100 mandatory special assessment, and mandatory restitution. Sentencing is scheduled for September 20, 2013. Evidence revealed in court at the plea showed that Heyde had been employed as the manager of the city of Marion Water Department from 1996 through May 2012. After being caught stealing funds, an audit was conducted that determined that there was over $500,000 in missing funds for a three year period of May 2009 through April 2012. Heyde admitted as part of the plea to embezzling funds from the city of Marion’s Water Department in each of those fiscal years but is contesting the total loss amount. The prosecution is the result of an investigation conducted by the City of Marion Police Department and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The prosecution was being handled by Assistant U.S. Attorney Norman R. Smith.
corruption SACRAMENTO, CA—John Gerald Poland, 44, of South Lake Tahoe, pleaded guilty today by a federal grand jury for multiple counts of witness tampering and obstruction of an official proceeding, U.S. Attorney Benjamin B. Wagner announced. This case is the product of an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, South Lake Tahoe Police Department, and the State of California Bureau of Narcotic Enforcement (SLEDNET Task Force). Assistant United States Attorney Michelle Rodriguez is prosecuting the case. According to court documents, on June 29, 2011, Poland interfered with a federal investigation of a South Lake Tahoe gang member. Poland persuaded the gang member’s girlfriend to conceal and destroy evidence. In October and November 2011, Poland tampered with this witness in an investigation into his own conduct as well as the conduct of the gang member. Poland instructed another witness to conceal and destroy evidence rather than provide it to federal authorities. Poland admitted that he corruptly attempted to alter, destroy, mutilate, and conceal evidence material to an official proceeding. Poland is scheduled to be sentenced by United States District Judge Kimberly J. Mueller on August 7, 2013. He faces a possible sentence of 20 years in prison for each count. The actual sentence, however, will be determined at the discretion of the court after consideration of any applicable statutory sentencing factors and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, which take into account a number of variables.
corruption Deirdre M. Daly, Acting United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, and Kimberly K. Mertz, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, today announced that a federal jury in New Haven has found Robert Braddock, Jr., 34, guilty of multiple offenses stemming from a scheme to direct illegal campaign contributions into the campaign of a candidate for the U.S. House of Representatives. The trial before U.S. District Judge Janet Bond Arterton began on May 13, and the jury returned its verdict today after deliberating for approximately two hours. “The evidence disclosed during this trial revealed a disturbing scheme operated by individuals who believed that our federal campaign finance laws are meaningless and that the legislative process can be easily corrupted with campaign contributions,” stated Acting U.S. Attorney Daly. “This case demonstrates exactly why our campaign finance laws exist in the first place and why this system must be transparent. I thank the FBI for uncovering this scheme and their outstanding work during the course of this investigation. I am also proud of the efforts of our prosecution team.” “Today’s guilty verdict is an important one because a jury of Mr. Braddock’s peers, registered voters from the state of Connecticut, has affirmed that pay-to-play schemes in the political arena will not be tolerated in their state,” stated FBI Special Agent in Charge Mertz. “Conspiring to conceal the origin of campaign donations is a serious criminal offense, and those who knowingly accept conduit or straw contributions severely undermine the public’s belief in good, honest government.” According to the trial evidence, court documents and statements made in court, in August 2011, the state of Connecticut applied for a court order enjoining Roll Your Own (RYO) smoke shops from continuing to operate without complying with state law governing tobacco manufacturers. RYO smoke shops are retail businesses that sell loose smoking tobacco and cigarette-rolling materials and offer customers the option of paying a “rental” fee to insert the loose tobacco and the rolling materials into a RYO machine, which is capable of rapidly rolling large quantities of cigarettes. Customers did not pay a tax on the RYO cigarettes when rolled by the RYO machines, in contrast to cigarettes purchased over-the-counter. Paul Rogers and George Tirado co-owned Smoke House Tobacco, a RYO smoke shop with two locations in Waterbury. Fearing that the Connecticut General Assembly would enact legislation harmful to RYO smoke shop owners’ business interests during the 2012 legislative session, Rogers, Tirado, Harry Raymond “Ray” Soucy, David Moffa, Benjamin Hogan, and others engaged in a scheme to direct conduit contributions into the campaign of Christopher Donovan, a candidate for the U.S. House of Representatives. At the time, Donovan was also the Speaker of the Connecticut House of Representatives. As part of the scheme, the co-conspirators recruited multiple individuals to serve as conduit contributors to the campaign. These individuals permitted checks to be written in their own names to the campaign, and certain conspirators reimbursed them with cash, thereby concealing the fact that RYO smoke shop owners were contributing to the campaign. Braddock, the finance director of the Donovan for Congress campaign, and Joshua Nassi, the campaign manager, knew that Soucy, Rogers, and others opposed legislation that would harm the business interests of the RYO smoke shop owners. In November and December 2011, Rogers, Soucy, Tirado, Moffa, Hogan, and others made four $2,500 conduit contributions to the Donovan for Congress campaign. On April 3, 2012, Soucy contacted Nassi and told him that RYO owners wanted to provide additional contributions to the campaign. That same day, the Connecticut General Assembly’s Joint Committee on Finance, Revenue, and Bonding voted in favor of Senate Bill 357, legislation that would have deemed RYO smoke shop owners to be tobacco manufacturers under Connecticut law, a designation that would have subjected RYO smoke shop owners to a substantial licensing fee and tax increase. Later that day, Soucy contacted Nassi again to state his displeasure with the vote. On April 11, 2012, Soucy, Rogers, and an FBI special agent working in an undercover capacity delivered four $2,500 checks in the names of conduit contributors to Nassi and Braddock. On April 23, 2012, Nassi advised Soucy that one of the checks had bounced, and Soucy indicated that the contributor had been given cash to deposit. Nassi stated that the campaign needed the check by midnight the following day, and Soucy delivered a replacement check by that deadline. On May 2, 2012, the campaign submitted a fundraising report to the Federal Election Commission (FEC) stating that the four contributions given in April were from the conduit contributors when, in fact, they were not. Over the next two weeks, Nassi continued to advise Soucy on the status of the RYO legislation, and Soucy told Nassi that he would be delivering an additional $10,000 if the legislation died. On May 9, 2012, the legislative session ended and the legislation had not been called for a vote by either chamber of the General Assembly. On May 14, 2012, Soucy, Rogers, and Hogan met at Smoke House Tobacco, where Soucy provided Rogers with $10,000 in cash to be used to reimburse additional conduit contributors. Prior to the meeting, Hogan had approached Waterbury business owner Daniel Monteiro and an employee of Monteiro’s and asked them to serve as conduit contributors. Monteiro subsequently wrote a $2,500 check to the campaign, and his employee obtained a bank check in the amount of $2,500. Both were assured that they would be reimbursed. These two checks, and another $2,500 bank check drawn on Hogan’s own account but not in his name, were given to Soucy at the meeting. Also, at Nassi’s request, Rogers gave Soucy a fourth $2,500 check from a conduit contributor that was payable to a political party. Soucy delivered the four checks to Nassi at a political event later that day. As he was exiting the event, Soucy encountered Braddock and stated that “20,000 was well worth it....And another 10 grand.” Braddock responded, “You’re the man.” On May 15, 2012, Braddock and Soucy had a telephone conversation related to the four conduit checks that Soucy had delivered the previous day, and Braddock indicated that he needed additional identifying information for Benjamin Hogan for FEC reporting purposes. During the conversation, Soucy stated that a previous contributor “had bounced a check even though you put the money right in their hands.” He later stated, “…grabbing these drunks and drug addicts and say ‘Here, write this check…,” to which Braddock responded, while laughing, “Hey, it works.” Later that day, Soucy called Braddock to inform him that Hogan was a RYO smoke shop “owner,” his check should not be deposited and that Soucy would provide a replacement check. Braddock stopped the check from being deposited. On May 16, 2012, Soucy met Nassi and provided him with a replacement $2,500 check in the name of someone who was not affiliated with any RYO shops. In addition to the testimony of Soucy, Rogers, the undercover FBI special agent and others, the trial evidence included numerous audio and video conversations that were recorded during the course of the investigation. Braddock was found guilty of one count of conspiring to make false statements to the FEC and to defraud the U.S. by impeding the function of the FEC, one count of accepting more than $10,000 in federal campaign contributions made by persons in the names of others, and one count of causing a false report to be filed with the FEC. Judge Arterton has scheduled sentencing for August 13, 2013, at which time Braddock faces a maximum term of imprisonment of 12 years and a fine of up to $750,000. Soucy, Rogers, Nassi, Moffa, Tirado, Hogan, and Monteiro have pleaded guilty to charges related to this scheme and await sentencing. This matter is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Christopher M. Mattei and Eric J. Glover.
corruption WICHITA, KS—A former officer of the Wichita Police Department and two other people have been charged with conspiracy and wire fraud after an internal investigation by police concluded that they were involved in scheme to keep the officer from losing her job, U.S. Attorney Barry Grissom said today. The police department submitted the results of its investigation to the FBI and the U.S. Attorney’s office for review. Former officer Joletta Vallejo, 34, and her friends, Patrick Melendrez, 40, Wichita, and Courtney Foster, 30, Wichita, are charged with one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud and seven counts of wire fraud. The indictment alleges that on October 16, 2011, a woman went to the Patrol North substation in Wichita to report that she had been abducted and beaten by her boyfriend, Larry Edmonds. Vallejo took the report and opened a case of misdemeanor domestic violence. During the same evening, another man called the police department’s Case Desk, a 24-hour service for the public to report crimes that do not require an officer’s presence to make an arrest or collect evidence. The man said Edmonds, the suspect in the abduction and beating, had robbed him and stolen his car. The man was told to report the crime to a police officer. When the man went to Patrol North to report the car theft, Vallejo refused to take the report and told him to call the Case Desk. Ultimately, Edmonds was arrested, charged, and convicted in Sedgwick County District Court on felony charges of aggravated kidnaping, robbery, and attempted first-degree murder. The police department’s Professionals Standards Bureau investigated Vallejo’s handling of the initial reports and concluded that she violated departmental policies and regulations. The indictment alleges that on August 22, 2012, Vallejo knew she was going to be fired. She arranged for co-defendant Patrick Melendrez to make a call to the man who tried to report the car theft. Melendrez offered to pay the man to change his statements to the police department’s Professional Standards Bureau. Melenrez said he would pay the man $150 to change his statement to make it less likely Vallejo would lose her job—and another $150 if Vallejo was able to keep her job. Then, Vallejo, Melendrez, and co-defendant Courtney Foster drove to an ATM, where Vallejo got cash for Melendrez to pay the bribe. Melendrez set up a meeting to pay the man to change his statements. Melendrez took a tape recorder to the meeting that Vallejo had given him so he could record the man’s call to police changing his statement. Co-defendant Foster gave Melendrez a ride to the meeting and waited across the street during the meeting. If convicted, the defendants face a maximum penalty of 20 years in federal prison and a fine up to $250,000 on each count. The Wichita Police Department and the FBI investigated. Assistant U.S. Attorney Debra Barnett is prosecuting. Other Indictments A former Wichita-area physician who is serving time on supervised release for a drug violation has been indicted on federal charges including possession of controlled substances, U.S. Attorney Barry Grissom said. A grand jury returned an indictment charging Lawrence M. Simons, 57, Wichita, with one count of possession of controlled substances, one count of unlawful possession of a firearm after a felony conviction, and one count of unlawful possession of ammunition after a felony conviction. In January 2010, Simons, a former employee of the Schneider Medical Clinic in Haysville, Kansas, was sentenced to 24 months in federal prison, to be followed by three years on supervised release, after he pleaded guilty to two counts of unlawfully distributing a controlled substance. In his plea, he admitted he prescribed Fentanyl and that the prescriptions were not issued for a legitimate medical purpose or made in the usual course of medical practice because the person who received the prescription was not his patient. The new indictment alleges that in August 2008 Simons signed an agreement with the Drug Enforcement Administration to voluntarily surrender his controlled substances privileges. The indictment alleges that in August 2009, he leased three storage units at West Kellogg Stor-Al in Wichita, where he stored personal property and controlled substances including Fentanyl, Actiq, Lortab Elixer, Ketamine, Versed, Midazolam, Brevital Sodium, Diazepam, Stadol, and Niravan. The indictment alleges he continued to possess the controlled substances until November 2012 when his access to the storage units was revoked because he stopped making the lease payments. The indictment also alleges that on April 17, 2013, Simons possessed a .32 caliber pistol and ammunition. Simons initially was charged with that crime in a criminal complaint filed May 10 in U.S. District Court in Wichita. If convicted, he faces a maximum penalty of two years in federal prison and a fine up to $250,000 on the drug charge and a maximum penalty of 10 years and a fine up to $250,000 on each of the two firearms charges. The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives investigated. Assistant U.S. Attorney Alan Metzger is prosecuting. John L. Gagliardo, 60, Pittsburg, Kansas, and George Washington, 50, Pittsburg, Kansas, are charged with two counts of attempted mail fraud and two counts of attempted wire fraud. In addition, Gagliardo is charged with 10 counts of making false statements to the FBI. The crimes are alleged to have occurred in 2010 and 2011 in Crawford County, Kansas. The indictment alleges that while Gagliardo was employed as the 911 director for Crawford County, Kansas, he and Washington, who owned Washington Electronics in Pittsburg, devised a scheme to fraudulently obtain bids to multiple local governments for 911 equipment or storm warning equipment under the name of Washington Electronics. They submitted fraudulent bids using the names of fictitious companies such as K-Communications of Scammon, Kansas, and K-Sirens of Scammon, Kansas, to make it appear multiple competitive bids had been submitted. In reality, the fictitious bids were always higher in costs than the bids presented by Washington Electronics, ensuring that Washington Electronics would be the winning bidder. If convicted, they face a maximum penalty of 20 years in federal prison and a fine up to $250,000 on each of the wire fraud and mail fraud charges. In addition, Gagliardo faces a maximum penalty of five years and a fine up to $250,000 on each count of making a false statement to investigators. The KBI and the FBI investigated. Assistant U.S. Attorney Lanny Welch is prosecuting. John Noon, 65, is charged with one count of armed bank robbery. The indictment alleges that on May 4, 2013, he robbed the Community America Credit Union on Parallel Parkway in Kansas City Kansas. If convicted, he faces a maximum penalty of 25 years in federal prison and a fine up to $250,000. The Kansas City, Kansas Police Department and the FBI investigated. Assistant U.S. Attorney Scott Rask is prosecuting. Paula J. Sargent, 47, Ransom, Kansas, is charged with embezzling funds while working for the U.S. Postal Service. The crime is alleged to have occurred April 23, 2013, in Ness County, Kansas. If convicted, she faces a penalty of up to a year in federal prison on the misdemeanor charge. The USPS-OIG investigated. Assistant U.S. Attorney Alan Metzger is prosecuting. Dallas E. Izzard, 32, Wichita, Kansas, is charged with one count of possession of a firearm in furtherance of drug trafficking, one count of possession with intent to distribute cocaine, one count of possession with intent to distribute marijuana, one count of unlawful possession of a firearm after a felony conviction, and one count of unlawful possession of a firearm with an obliterated serial number. The crimes are alleged to have occurred in April and May 2013 in Sedgwick County, Kansas. Upon conviction, the crimes carry the following penalties: Possession of a firearm in furtherance of drug trafficking: A maximum penalty of five years in federal prison and a fine up to $250,000. Possession with intent to distribute cocaine: A maximum penalty of 20 years and a fine up to $250,000. Possession with intent to distribute marijuana: A maximum penalty of five years and a fine up to $250,000. Unlawful possession of a firearm after a felony conviction: A maximum penalty of 10 years and a fine up to $250,000. Unlawful possession of a firearm with an obliterated serial number: Not less than five years and a fine up to $250,000. The Wichita Police Department investigated. Assistant U.S. Attorney Matt Treaster is prosecuting. Terry L. Wood, 53, Topeka, Kansas, is charged with one count of possession with intent to distribute methamphetamine and one count of maintaining a residence in furtherance of drug trafficking at 1549 SW Brunswick Road in Topeka, which is within 1,000 feet of McCarter Elementary School. The crimes are alleged to have occurred in April and May 2013 in Shawnee County, Kansas. If convicted, he faces a maximum penalty of life in prison and a fine up to $20 million on the possession charge and a maximum penalty of life and a fine up to $40 million on the charge of maintaining a residence in furtherance of drug trafficking. The Topeka Police Department; the Kansas City, Kansas Police Department; and the Drug Enforcement Administration investigated. Assistant U.S. Attorney Tony Mattivi is prosecuting. Shawn Turner, 30, is charged with unlawful possession of a firearm after a felony conviction. The crime is alleged to have occurred March 15, 2013, in Shawnee County, Kansas. If convicted, he faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in federal prison and a fine up to $250,000. The Topeka Police Department Patrol Division and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives investigated. Assistant U.S. Attorney Randy Hendershot is prosecuting. Ericka Murillo-Aguilar, 32, a citizen of Mexico, is charged with unlawfully re-entering the United States after being deported. She was found May 3, 2013, in Sedgwick County, Kansas. If convicted, she faces a maximum penalty of two years in federal prison and a fine up to $250,000. ICE’s Enforcement Removal Operations investigated. Assistant U.S. Attorney Brent Anderson is prosecuting. Leslie Lyle Camick, 57, a citizen of Canada, is charged with one count of mail fraud, five counts of aggravated identity theft, one count of immigration document fraud, one count of making a false statement to the U.S. government, one count of making a false statement on a bank application, and one count of bank fraud. The crimes are alleged to have occurred at various times from October 2005 to April 2013 in Sedgwick County, Kansas. Upon conviction, the crimes carry the following penalties: Mail fraud: A maximum penalty of 20 years in federal prison without parole and a fine up to $250,000. Aggravated identity theft: A mandatory two years to run consecutively to any underlying sentence and a fine up to $250,000. Immigration document fraud: A maximum penalty of 15 years and a fine up to $250,000. Making a false statement to the U.S. government: A maximum penalty of five years and a fine up to $250,000. Making a false statement on a bank application: A maximum penalty of 30 years in federal prison and a fine up to $250,000. Bank fraud: A maximum penalty of 30 years and a fine up to $250,000. ICE Homeland Security Investigations investigated. Assistant U.S. Attorney Brent Anderson is prosecuting. Robert L. White, 31, is charged with one count of unlawful possession of a firearm after a felony conviction and one count of unlawful possession of a sawed off shotgun. The crimes are alleged to have occurred May 21, 2013, in Sedgwick County, Kansas. If convicted, he faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in federal prison and a fine up to $250,000 on the charge of unlawful possession after a felony conviction and a maximum penalty of 10 years and a fine up to $10,000 on the shotgun charge. The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives investigated. Special Assistant U.S. Attorney Michelle Jacobs is prosecuting. In all cases, defendants are presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty. The indictments merely contain allegations of criminal conduct.
corruption INDIANAPOLIS—United States Attorney Joseph H. Hogsett announced this afternoon the arrest and charging of five defendants who are alleged to have participated in a scheme to abuse the Indianapolis Land Bank program for their own benefit. The indictment alleges that the two city of Indianapolis employees and three co-conspirators engaged in wire fraud and bribery in order to facilitate a number of fraudulent land purchases. “These charges involve a conspiracy to defraud the taxpayers of Indianapolis and abuse a local housing program designed to help rebuild this city’s most troubled neighborhoods,” Hogsett said. “For those in positions of public trust, both here in Indianapolis and across the state, I hope these developments have confirmed the message: the era of corruption is over.” “The FBI criminal program’s top priority is public corruption,” said FBI Special Agent in Charge Robert Jones. “The integrity of our public officials is the cornerstone of fair governance.” “The Indiana State Police appreciates U.S. Attorney Hogsett’s aggressive prosecution of government officials are alleged to have violated the public trust, and we stand ready to assist in future investigations,” said Indiana State Police Superintendent Doug Carter. According to the indictment unsealed a few moments ago, defendant Reggie Walton, age 29, is the Assistant Administrator of the Indianapolis Department of Metropolitan Development (DMD) and oversaw the operation of the Indianapolis Land Bank. He was assisted in his official duties by defendant John Hawkins, age 27, who is the Senior Project Manager for the DMD. The purpose of the Indianapolis Land Bank is to acquire abandoned and tax delinquent properties in Indianapolis and make them available for sale to non-profit and for-profit real estate developers. For-profit investors interested in purchasing real estate from the Land Bank must ask the city treasurer to include the property in a sealed-bid auction, and the auction price must meet or exceed a property appraisal. Non-profit purchasers, however, may bypass the auction process, purchasing real estate for a price between $1,000 and $2,500 per parcel, regardless of the appraised value of the property. The indictment alleges that Walton and Reed accepted bribes and kickbacks to facilitate fraudulent property sales to non-profit entities that would then sell the property to for-profit businesses. After these “pass-through” transactions had taken place, Walton and Hawkins would receive kickback payments from the non-profit organizations from the proceeds of the property sales. The investigation into the pair also included the use of an undercover agent, and Walton accepted $500 from that agent in return for his agreement to fraudulently transfer at least 10 parcels of land to the agent for $1,000 each. The indictment charges David Johnson, age 47, executive director of the Indianapolis Minority AIDS Coalition with having used his non-profit business to participate in this scheme. Additionally, Randall K. Sargent, age 57, president of New Day Residential Development, another registered non-profit corporation, has been charged with participating in the scheme. Both men are alleged to have engaged in wire fraud as part of the kickback scheme, and Sargent faces an additional count of bribery for allegedly providing money to Walton in order to influence and reward his illegal activity. The indictment also charges Aaron Reed, age 35, with wire fraud and bribery for his role in the scheme. Reed is the registered agent for the Naptown Housing Group, a for-profit real estate corporation. It is alleged that Reed would solicit for-profit investors to obtain real estate currently held by the Land Bank. After the investors obtained the property from one of the “pass-through” non-profit organizations, Reed would obtain profits, which he would share with Walton through payments and kickbacks. The indictment further alleges that Reggie Walton, while working at the DMD and heading up the Land Bank program, became a silent partner in the Naptown Housing Group. Walton concealed his involvement with the corporation from the city of Indianapolis and the public and received a share of the corporation’s profits as part of the scheme. Today’s indictment comes as the U.S. Attorney’s Office has prioritized the investigation and prosecution of fraud, waste, and abuse on the part of public officials and those in positions of trust. As part of this effort, in 2012 the office created its first Public Integrity Working Group to assist in the investigation and prosecution of cases involving public corruption and white-collar crimes. This case is the result of an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Indiana State Police, both active members of the working group. According to Special Litigation Counsel Bradley A. Blackington, the wire fraud charges carry a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison, and the bribery-related charges carry a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison. All five defendants had initial appearances in federal court at noon today and will be under court-ordered supervised release pending trial. An indictment is only a charge and is not evidence of guilt. Defendants are presumed innocent and is entitled to a fair trial at which the government must prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption The former Chief Administrative and Technology Officer of the Detroit Public Library was charged with taking more than $1.4 million in bribes and kickbacks from contractors of the library, United States Attorney Barbara L. McQuade announced today. Joining McQuade in the announcement was Special Agent in Charge Robert D. Foley III, FBI, and Special Agent in Charge Erick Martinez, IRS-Criminal Investigation. Timothy Cromer, age 46, who held his library position from 2006 to 2013, was charged in a 21-count superseding indictment, along with contractors James Henley and Ricardo Hearn. According to the indictment, Cromer helped Henley create a business in 2007 called Core Consulting & Professional Services and then instructed him to submit a proposal for information technology services at the Detroit Public Library. Cromer arranged for Core to win the bid and approved various change orders and extensions, causing the Detroit Public Library to pay Core a total of about $1.8 million. Henley is alleged to have kicked back about $500,000 to Cromer until Core’s contract with the Detroit Public Library was terminated in January 2008. Cromer terminated the contract to prevent officials from discovering the kickback scheme. Even after the contract was terminated, Cromer instructed Henley to continue submitting invoices on behalf of Core. Cromer continued to approve the invoices, and Henley kicked back an additional $125,000 to Cromer. Cromer was also charged with receiving kickbacks from Hearn, another contractor. Cromer allegedly approved no-bid professional services contracts for Hearn’s company, Cubemation LLC, to perform information technology services for the Detroit Public Library from 2008 until 2010. According to the indictment, Cubemation received about $2.8 million in payments from the Detroit Public Library, and Hearn delivered about $800,000 in cash to Cromer during that time period. If convicted, Cromer, Henley, and Hearn each face a maximum of 10 years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000 for each bribery count. The indictment also seeks forfeiture of proceeds and payments associated with the bribery scheme. U.S. Attorney McQuade said, “Our public libraries exist for the cultural and intellectual enrichment of our citizens, not for the personal profit of the officials who work there. The bribery scheme alleged in the indictment represents a betrayal of the honest employees who have dedicated themselves to serving the Detroit Public Library and its patrons. We will do all we can to root out such corruption and deter officials from using public funds for self-enrichment.” FBI Special Agent in Charge Robert D. Foley, III said, “We will aggressively pursue violations of the public trust such as that demonstrated in this case.” The case was investigated by agents of the FBI and the IRS. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Elizabeth A. Stafford and Julie Beck. An indictment is only a charge and is not evidence of guilt. It will be the government’s burden to prove guilt beyond a reasonable.
corruption Earlier today, Michael Provenzano, formerly director of Construction Services for the New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development (HPD), was sentenced to a term of imprisonment of 18 months followed by three years of supervised release, and ordered to pay $30,000 restitution to the city of New York and a $5,000 fine following his corruption conviction for taking bribes. As part of his sentence, Provenzano also was ordered to forfeit the $30,000 in bribery money to the government, representing the proceeds of his crime. The sentence was imposed by United States District Judge Nina Gershon at the federal courthouse in Brooklyn, New York. The sentence was announced by Loretta E. Lynch, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York; George Venizelos, Assistant Director in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation, New York Field Office (FBI); Robert Panella, Special Agent in Charge, United States Department of Labor (DOL) Office of Inspector General, Office of Labor Racketeering and Fraud Investigations; and Rose Gill Hearn, Commissioner, New York City Department of Investigation (DOI). From approximately January 2007 through December 2009, Provenzano solicited and received $30,000 in bribe payments from a contractor who had extensive construction contracts with HPD, the largest municipal developer of affordable housing in the United States. The contractor paid Provenzano the bribes in return for, among other things, Provenzano leaking to the contractor confidential HPD inspection reports, which documented the number of workers at a given work site. The contractor was regularly and illegally employing additional workers at different work sites and paying them less than the legally required prevailing wage. With these leaked inspection reports, the contractor was able to conform his invoices to match the reports, thereby avoiding detection by HPD for his illegal conduct in paying those additional workers less than the prevailing wage. Today’s sentencing proceeding is the first stemming from the government’s wide-ranging investigation into fraud involving the affordable housing industry in New York City. Four real estate developers and two other former HPD officials have pleaded guilty to various charges including racketeering conspiracy, fraud, and bribery related to the development of affordable housing in New York City. Three additional defendants await trial. “Provenzano admitted taking bribes to provide a developer with confidential information that helped that developer exploit his workers. Today’s sentence sends a clear message: any public servant, whether a legislator or an appointed official, who dips his hand in the public till will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Serving the public is a privilege, not an opportunity for unjust enrichment. We will continue to root out public corruption wherever we find it,” stated United States Attorney Lynch. Ms. Lynch thanked the Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation, New York; the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development; and the New York City Police Department for their assistance in this case. FBI Assistant Director in Charge Venizelos stated, “By his admission, Provenzano was for sale. For a fee, he provided information that benefitted a contractor rather than serving the interests of the city, his agency and the public.” “Today’s sentencing highlights the Office of Inspector General’s commitment to combat fraud and corruption involving publicly funded construction contracts. The OIG will continue to work with our law enforcement partners to investigate those who facilitate the circumvention of prevailing wage laws for personal gain,” stated DOL/OIG Special Agent in Charge Panella. DOI Commissioner Rose Gill Hearn said, “This defendant should have protected HPD’s construction process. Instead, he traded his integrity so he could pocket tens of thousands of dollars in bribes. Now, he reaps the serious consequences of his crimes: conviction, prison, and the loss of a valuable city job.” The government’s case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Cristina M. Posa, Anthony Capozzolo, and Claire Kedeshian. Defendant: Michael Provenzano Massapequa, New York Age 49
corruption LITTLE ROCK—Christopher R. Thyer, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Arkansas, and Randall C. Coleman, Special Agent in Charge of the Little Rock Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, announced today that Arkansas State Treasurer Martha Shoffner, age 68, was charged by federal complaint today with attempt and conspiracy to commit extortion under color of official right, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1951(a). Shoffner was arrested on May 18, 2013, and appeared today before United States Magistrate Judge H. David Young for an initial appearance on the federal complaint. Shoffner was released from custody. The complaint alleges that Shoffner obtained cash payments, to which she was not entitled, from an individual, with the individual’s consent, knowing that the cash payments were made under color of official right, in return for official acts as Arkansas state treasurer. The allegations in support of the criminal complaint are set forth in the complaint affidavit. If convicted, Shoffner faces not more than 20 years in prison and up to a $250,000 fine, or both, followed by not more than three years’ supervised release. The investigation was conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorneys Jana Harris and Stephanie Mazzanti are prosecuting this case for the United States. The charges set forth in a complaint are merely allegations. A federal grand jury will decide whether to indict on these charges. The defendant is presumed innocent until proven guilty.
corruption BOSTON—A federal jury in Boston today convicted a Massachusetts State Police trooper for extorting and threatening a local bettor. The jury, which deliberated over two days, convicted John Analetto, 49, of Belmont, on one count of extortion specific to a threatening phone call he made to a bettor in the gambling business. The jury was hung on the other count of extortion. From October through December 2011, Analetto loaned money to a local bookmaker, who was a cooperating witness for the government. After learning of the bookmaker’s outstanding debts to loansharks, Analetto loaned him money in exchange for a percentage of his gambling business. Analetto loaned the bookie a total of $24,000 for these purposes and established the repayment terms as $500 principal return per week, plus interest return on the bookmaker’s gambling profits. In various recorded meetings in December 2011, Analetto made threats in connection with the gambling business to both the cooperating witness and another bettor. Specifically on December 30, 2011, Analetto made a threatening phone call to a bettor, which was video recorded. The jury also heard a voicemail message received by the bettor, in which Analetto tells him that he must pay his debt or, “2012 isn’t going to be too good for you.” Analetto has been in custody since his arrest on December 31, 2011. He faces the maximum statutory penalty of up to 20 years in prison, to be followed by three years of supervised release and a $250,000 fine. A sentencing date has not yet been set. United States Attorney Carmen M. Ortiz; Richard DesLauriers, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation-Boston Field Office; and Colonel Timothy Alben, Superintendent of the Massachusetts State Police, made the announcement today. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Eugenia M. Carris of Ortiz’s Public Corruption and Special Prosecutions Unit.
corruption ST. LOUIS—Joseph Vacca, deputy commissioner of the St. Louis Parks Division, and Thomas Stritzel, chief of the St. Louis Park Rangers, were indicted by a federal grand jury late Wednesday on fraud charges alleging that they defrauded the city of St. Louis of approximately one-half million dollars by submitting false and sham invoices purportedly for materials and services supplied to the Parks Division. They are expected to turn themselves in to authorities this week. The indictment alleges that from January 1, 2005 to on or about December 31, 2012, Vacca and Stritzel embezzled funds of the city of St. Louis based upon the submission of sham and false invoices which included false charges of approximately $464,722. They used the funds for their own personal use, including lease payments on personal vehicles, fuel costs, the payment of personal credit card charges, and other personal living expenses unrelated to the legitimate operations of the St. Louis Parks Division. According to the indictment, Vacca and Stritzel set up a sham company called Dynamic Management and then funneled city funds received through the submission of false and sham invoices to Dynamic Management’s bank account. Vacca and Stritzel then used those fraudulently obtained funds for their own personal use, including for the leasing of personal vehicles, the payment of fuel costs, and the payment of personal credit card charges. “Taxpayers were slapped in the face when roughly half a million dollars was allegedly embezzled from city of St. Louis funds allocated to the Parks Department,” said Special Agent in Charge Dean C. Bryant of the FBI St. Louis Division. “The cooperation from the city of St. Louis enabled the FBI to uncover the multiple fraudulent schemes.” If convicted, each of these charges carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and/or fines up to $250,000. In determining the actual sentences, a judge is required to consider the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines, which provide recommended sentencing ranges. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department. Assistant United States Attorney Hal Goldsmith is handling the case for the U.S. Attorney’s Office. As is always the case, charges set forth in an indictment are merely accusations and do not constitute proof of guilt. Every defendant is presumed to be innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption ATLANTA—A federal grand jury has indicted Tyrone Brooks, Sr. on charges that he misappropriated almost $1 million in charitable funds from Universal Humanities, a charity he founded in 1990, and the Georgia Association of Black Elected Officials (GABEO). “This is a disappointing day. Representative Brooks has done much good in his life, both as a state legislator and civil rights leader. But the indictment charges that over many years, Representative Brooks misappropriated nearly $1 million in charitable donations intended to provide literacy training in underserved communities, and from GABEO—the organization for which he has served as president since 1993. Sadly, by diverting these funds to his own use, Representative Brooks deprived those most in need of critical assistance.” Mark F. Giuliano, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office, stated: “While the FBI continues to make public corruption matters its number one priority within its criminal branch, we do so with a clear commitment to the rule of law. Today’s federal grand jury indictment reflects the commitment of the FBI and its law enforcement partners to follow the facts of these investigations wherever they lead us.” “Mr. Brooks exploited two charitable organizations for his own personal financial gain which came at the expense of the intended beneficiaries of the charitable donations. IRS Criminal Investigation is committed to investigating individuals who use charitable organizations for their personal gain,” stated Veronica Hyman-Pillot, Special Agent in Charge, IRS Criminal Investigation. “Mr. Brooks defrauded not only the donors but also the American taxpayer by evading his tax obligations. Tax compliance should and must be equally shared among all Americans.” Brooks, 67, of Atlanta, Georgia, was charged by a federal grand jury in a 30-count indictment that includes charges of mail, wire, and tax fraud. The indictment charges that, from the mid-1990s through 2012, Brooks solicited contributions from individuals and corporate donors to combat illiteracy and fund other charitable causes, but then used the money to pay personal expenses for himself and his family. The indictment was returned today, and Brooks will appear for arraignment on a date set by the court. According to the Indictment Universal Humanities Scheme The indictment charges two fraud schemes, the first involving a tax-exempt charity, Universal Humanities, Inc., that Brooks established in the early 1990s. From at least 1995 through 2012, Brooks solicited contributions for Universal Humanities from corporate and individual donors purportedly to combat illiteracy in disadvantaged communities in Georgia and across the southeastern United States, eventually raising more than $780,000. Donors included the Coca-Cola Company ($400,000), Georgia Pacific Company ($140,000), Northside Hospital ($240,000), and others who gave smaller amounts. Brooks made specific false representations in his written solicitations about the work that Universal Humanities was doing to combat illiteracy and how the donated funds would be used, claiming that Universal Humanities had established literacy programs and was conducting workshops and tutoring and mentoring students. He also falsely claimed that Universal Humanities utilized a staff and operated under the direction of a board of directors. The indictment alleges that in reality, Brooks did not use the donations to promote and address literacy in Georgia or elsewhere, or to retain a staff, occupy office space, fund workshops, hire instructors, or conduct programs attended by students. Instead, Brooks used the money to pay personal expenses for himself and members of his family, including home repairs, furniture, lawn service, life insurance, entertainment, personal credit card expenses, utility bills, food and clothing, dry cleaning, electronic equipment, jewelry, and payments on personal loans, among other personal expenses. Brooks generally accomplished the diversion of funds by depositing the solicited donations into a bank account he established in the name of Universal Humanities, then almost immediately transferring the funds to a personal account, from which he paid personal expenses. At times, Brooks paid personal expenses directly from the Universal Humanities account. More specifically, the indictment alleges that: Contrary to Brooks’ representations to donors, Universal Humanities never had a functioning board of directors. The individuals listed on the solicitations and incorporation documents were unaware that Brooks had identified them as Universal Humanities board members, and most had never even heard of the organization; Brooks represented in a 1999 solicitation that Universal Humanities had been “so successful” in Georgia that it was expanding its programs to other states in the Southeast and expected to have a projected budget of $500,000. In truth, Universal Humanities did not have an operational literacy program inside or outside of Georgia, nor did it have a projected budget of $500,000; Brooks represented in a 2010 solicitation that Universal Humanities’ literacy program, which Brooks called Visions of Literacy, consisted of a host of “outlets” created to increase literacy and included activities such as seminars, workshops, tutoring, mentoring, and rallies. Brooks further claimed that Universal Humanities and its “staff ha[d] over 40 years’ experience in assisting U.S. communities through a variety of efforts,” and that 10,000 people would be the direct beneficiaries of the literacy program. In truth, Universal Humanities and Brooks did not operate a functional literacy program, host the literacy activities described in the solicitation, or have a staff; Brooks represented in a 2011 solicitation that the Visions of Literacy program conducted monthly workshops, seminars, and advocacy outreach activities, and that the solicited funds would be used to hire retired teachers and administrators as “educational consultants” to gain “targeted results.” Instead, Brooks spent the funds donated in response to this solicitation on payments for a personal credit card charges, personal loan payments, utility bills, and a $500 check to a family member as a Christmas gift; Unbeknownst to GABEO, Brooks represented in a 2011 solicitation that GABEO was a “sister organization” to Universal Humanities and that GABEO was committed to the “growth and advancement of Universal Humanities.” Brooks falsely claimed that GABEO members spoke in public forums to implement and promote Universal Humanities’ programs; that GABEO members taught at Universal Humanities meetings and classes “alongside” Universal Humanities community organizers; and that GABEO members served on the Universal Humanities’ board of directors, steering committee, fundraising committee, and program management committees, though the purported committees were nonexistent; and Brooks submitted a form to the IRS under oath claiming that Universal Humanities incurred expenses of $62,652 for printing, postage, and publications in 2007; $67,601 for “commemorative events” in 2008; and $53,184 for charitable contributions, fundraising, and conferences in 2009. Just one year before, Brooks had submitted the same form under oath claiming that for the same years, Universal Humanities incurred expenses of only $8,900 for each of those years and had generated income of over $50,000. As a result of Brooks’ misappropriation of donated funds, the intended beneficiaries of the funds did not receive the needed literacy training or assistance. GABEO Scheme A second related scheme charged in the indictment alleges that Brooks also diverted charitable donations he solicited on behalf of GABEO and used much of the money to pay personal expenses for himself and his family. GABEO is an organization of state, county, and municipal elected officials that promotes voter registration, crime prevention, literacy and economic empowerment initiatives. The indictment alleges that Brooks solicited contributions to GABEO from corporations, organizations, and individuals. When Brooks was elected as GABEO’s president in 1993, the organization already maintained an official bank account at a local bank. This account was administered by GABEO’s treasurer, and disbursements required two signatures by GABEO board members. In December 1997, Brooks secretly opened a second GABEO bank account at a different bank. Brooks set himself up as the sole signatory on this account and had the account statements sent to his address rather than the address of the GABEO treasurer. Brooks then deposited the donations he solicited on behalf of GABEO into this undisclosed account, and used much of these funds to pay personal expenses for himself and his relatives. Between 2002 and 2012, businesses, civic, religious groups, and individuals contributed approximately $300,000 to GABEO through Brooks, which he then deposited into the undisclosed GABEO account. The indictment alleges that Brooks misappropriated donations he solicited on behalf of GABEO from corporations, local teacher unions, small business owners, and individual donors—all of whom relied on Brooks’ assurances that the contributions were intended to further GABEO’s community activities. The GABEO board was unaware of this activity and did not approve these transactions. In fact, the indictment alleges that after Brooks began diverting donations, members of GABEO’s board of directors noted the organization’s apparent loss of most of its corporate donations. The indictment charges that Brooks misappropriated the GABEO funds in much the same manner as the Universal Humanities funds. The indictment alleges that generally, Brooks deposited funds he solicited on behalf of GABEO into the undisclosed GABEO account, then transferred the funds to his personal account, from which he paid his personal expenses. While Brooks utilized some of the GABEO donations to pay expenses related to GABEO’s annual meetings, he utilized much of the GABEO funds for personal expenses. More specifically, the indictment charges that: During the time that Brooks acted as GABEO’s president, a variety of charitable groups, companies and individuals made donations to GABEO through Brooks. These donors relied on Brooks’ representations that GABEO would use the contributions to defray the costs of the organization’s annual meetings and convention, and to support GABEO’s programs; Brooks made specific false representations to donors about how the solicited funds would be used, claiming that the funds would be used to cover the expenses of annual GABEO meetings and support GABEO crime prevention and child hunger initiatives, voter registration, felon rehabilitation initiatives, and literacy programs. Donors included Coca Cola ($96,500), Georgia Power ($37,000), the International Brotherhood of Teamsters ($36,000), and others; Additionally, a professional organization of teachers contributed to GABEO through Brooks, relying on his assurances that the funds would go to support GABEO’s annual meetings and convention. An Atlanta law firm gave to GABEO through Brooks based on his representation that the funds would help fund a children’s school and GABEO’s annual convention. A bank contributed to GABEO through Brooks based upon his representations that the funds would be used by GABEO to construct a commemorative marker at Moore’s Ford Bridge. Instead, Brooks deposited these funds into the undisclosed GABEO account that he controlled and then transferred the money to pay to his personal account, ultimately using most of the contributions to pay personal expenses; and In November 2011, and May 2012, without the knowledge and consent of GABEO’s board of directors, Brooks obtained bank loans on behalf of GABEO. Brooks told the bank that GABEO intended to use the proceeds of both loans for Citizenship Education Get Out the Vote initiatives. Relying on Brooks’ representations, the bank approved both loans and issued the proceeds to Brooks. Brooks subsequently used much of the funds to pay personal expenses rather than for GABEO’s education and voter registration programs as he claimed in the loan applications. By misappropriating GABEO donations for his personal use, Brooks benefitted himself at the expense of both GABEO and the communities most in need of the literacy, crime prevention and voter registration programs for which the funds were intended. False Tax Returns Charges Finally, the indictment charges that Brooks substantially underreported his income to the IRS for the years 2007 through 2011. Despite Brooks’ charged misappropriation of hundreds of thousands in donations to Universal Humanities and GABEO, his tax returns for the years between 2008 through 2011 falsely reported income of only approximately $35,000 annually. Overview of the Charges The indictment charges 30 counts of mail, wire, and tax fraud. The mail and wire fraud charges carry a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000. The tax charges carry a maximum sentence of three years and a fine of up to $100,000. It is important to note that the sentences imposed may not approach the statutory maximum sentences, as the court will consider the United States Sentencing Guidelines, which are not binding but provide appropriate sentencing ranges for most offenders. This case is being investigated by special agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Internal Revenue Service. Assistant United States Attorneys Kurt R. Erskine, Richard S. Moultrie, Jr., and Kamal Ghali are prosecuting the case. Members of the public are reminded that the indictment contains only allegations. A defendant is presumed innocent of the charges and it will be the government’s burden to prove a defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt at trial. For further information, please contact the U.S. Attorney’s Public Affairs Office at USAGAN.PressEmails@usdoj.gov or (404) 581-6016. The Internet address for the HomePage for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia is www.justice.gov/usao/gan.
corruption This morning, former City of Eagle Pass Department of Public Works employee Edgar Aguilar was sentenced to 42 months in federal prison and ordered to pay $68,373.87 in restitution for his role in a credit card fraud scheme involving the City of Eagle Pass, announced United States Attorney Robert Pitman and Federal Bureau of Investigation Special Agent in Charge Armando Fernandez. On November 29, 2012, Aguilar pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit credit card fraud. By pleading guilty, Aguilar admitted that during 2011, he obtained five City of Eagle Pass-owned “Fuelman” credit cards designated for fuel purchases for Public Works department vehicles and distributed them to his co-defendants. The defendants then used those cards to purchase fuel for their own vehicles and to purchase fuel for others at the city’s expense. In some instances, defendants charged individuals a reduced rate for fuel purchased using the city’s credit card, and then pocketed the cash. Co-defendants Rene Castillo, Armando Ojeda Nuncio, and Ricardo Hernandez-Espinoza have all pleaded guilty to use of unauthorized access device. Elizabeth Vivian has pleaded guilty to the conspiracy charge. All four are awaiting sentencing. This joint investigation was conducted by agents with the Federal Bureau of Investigation together with investigators from the Eagle Pass Police Department. Assistant United States Attorney Tad Duree is prosecuting this case on behalf of the government.
corruption ORLANDO—United States Attorney Robert E. O’Neill announces the arrests of Husein Kermali (37) and Sikandar Kermali (33), both from Sanford, Florida, for conspiring to steal government property. If convicted, both men face up to five years in federal prison. According to the criminal complaint, while employed in the United States Army Active Guard Reserve, co-conspirator Sebastian Stewart Oyegun II, made unauthorized purchases of high-end engineering equipment, computer equipment, and power tools. Oyegun charged the goods to the United States Army and shipped the goods to various addresses. The purchases were made over the Internet using the General Services Administration (GSA) Advantage System website. The site is an ordering mechanism whereby government agencies or contractors can order items from vendors. Oyegun manipulated the purchasing system by fraudulently creating a phony user ID and password, providing phony points of contact and fake approving officials, and adding multiple shipping addresses. Most of the stolen goods were shipped to Oyegun’s residence or a warehouse in Sanford controlled by the Kermali brothers. In furtherance of the conspiracy, the Kermalis would select items they wanted from the GSA Advantage System website and e-mail their requests to Oyegun, paying him a fraction of the advertised price. After the U.S. Army uncovered the scheme, Oyegun began cooperating with the FBI and participated in a number of controlled meetings with the Kermalis. On at least three occasions, Oyegun delivered stolen goods to the Kermalis at their Sanford warehouse in his U.S. Army Combat Uniform. The Kermalis requested Surefire weapon sights, EOTech Holographic tactical weapon sights, and Trijicon gun sights from Oyegun and asked him if he could send items to Dubai. Sikandar Kermali also asked Oyegun for armor piecing ammunition and sent Oyegun a text message asking for more “war stuff.” Oyegun pleaded guilty to his role in this case. His sentencing hearing is scheduled for May 28, 2013, before U.S. District Judge Charlene Honeywell. A criminal complaint is merely a formal charge that a defendant has committed a violation of the federal criminal laws, and every defendant is presumed innocent unless, and until, proven guilty. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Army Criminal Investigative Command, the General Services Administration-Office of Inspector General, and the Department of Commerce-Office of Export Enforcement. It will be prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Daniel W. Eckhart.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—Former Philadelphia city employee John D. McDaniel, 39, of Philadelphia, was sentenced today to 12 months and one day in prison for a wire fraud charge connected to the theft of $100,000 from a campaign/political committee. McDaniel, the former treasurer of the campaign/political committee for a Philadelphia city councilperson, was fired from his city-paid airport job after the city Board of Ethics identified numerous reporting irregularities by McDaniel in the campaign’s required city filings. Between 2009 and 2011, McDaniel used several methods to routinely and, at times, without authorization, withdraw funds from the committee account, which funds he then used for his own purposes and other purposes. At times, McDaniel wrote and cashed checks to himself and wrote checks to Progressive Agenda, a political action committee which he controlled and from which he then took stolen funds. McDaniel concealed the theft by filing false and incomplete campaign finance reports. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Paul L. Gray.
corruption CHICAGO—A Chicago Police officer was convicted today of obtaining two extortion payments totaling $3,200 from a cooperating tow truck driver in exchange for steering vehicle tows from accident scenes during an undercover investigation. The defendant, Deavalin Page, who was assigned to the South Chicago District at the time, was relieved of his police powers and assigned to desk duty following the payments that occurred in late 2007 and early 2008. Page was convicted on two counts of attempted extortion by a federal jury that deliberated a little more than two hours this morning after being presented with video recordings and other evidence of the payments during a trial that began Monday in U.S. District Court. Page, 46, of Chicago, an officer since 1995, faces a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine on each count of attempted extortion. He remains free on bond pending sentencing, which U.S. District Judge John Darrah scheduled for 1 p.m. on October 23. Page was indicted last October as part of the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Operation Tow Scam, a corruption probe of police officers who steered vehicle tows at accident scenes to favored tow drivers in exchange for extortion payments. Page is the eighth police officer to be convicted, along with four civilians—three of them tow truck drivers—and charges are pending against two additional police officers. Evidence at the trial showed that Page obtained two payments from a cooperating tow truck driver, Brian Chandler, in exchange for steering him various tows. Chandler has pleaded guilty to wire fraud and bank larceny and is awaiting sentencing. The first payment, on November 28, 2007, was $2,000 in the bathroom of a coffee shop at 79th Street and Stoney Island. The second payment, on January 28, 2008, was $1,200 in the parking lot of a bank while Page was in his private vehicle. The latter payment, in part, was in exchange for towing three cars, at least one of which did not require towing, from an accident scene at 86th and Burnham involving a teenager who was driving her parents’ insured car. The guilty verdict was announced today by Gary S. Shapiro, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois; Cory B. Nelson, Special Agent in Charge of the Chicago Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and Garry F. McCarthy, Superintendent of the Chicago Police Department. The government is being represented by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Michael Donovan and Steven Grimes.
corruption INDIANAPOLIS—United States Attorney Joseph H. Hogsett announced today that formal federal bribery charges have been filed against David Wyser, age 53, who is currently a resident of Hamilton County. Hogsett also announced that Wyser has filed a formal petition to enter a plea of guilty to these charges and as part of that agreement will fully cooperate with federal investigators. “For the U.S. Attorney’s Office and our law enforcement partners, announcements such as this are about one thing and one thing only: upholding the rule of law,” Hogsett said. “It doesn’t matter who you are or what personal politics you may hold. If you violate the public’s trust, we will hold you fully accountable.” “Public corruption is the FBI criminal program’s top priority because it poses a fundamental threat to our judicial system and the pursuit of justice,” added FBI Special Agent in Charge Robert Jones. From 2005 until 2010, Wyser served as the chief deputy prosecuting attorney of the Marion County’s Prosecutor’s Office. In addition, Wyser was a candidate for public office from 2007 until 2010, as he sought to be elected prosecuting attorney for Hamilton County. The charging document alleges that on May 29, 2009, in his capacity as Marion County Chief Deputy Prosecutor, Wyser had a discussion with a defense lawyer who represented a prisoner serving a 70-year sentence for murder and conspiracy to commit murder. Under Indiana law, this prisoner could not seek a modification or reduction of a sentence without the approval of the county prosecutor’s office. According to the charging document, Wyser and the prisoner’s attorney discussed the topic of Wyser receiving a campaign contribution from the prisoner’s father. The charging document alleges that the same day this discussion took place, the father of the prisoner wrote a $2,500 check to the Committee to Elect David Wyser. On June 22, 2009, that check was deposited into the bank account of the Committee to Elect David Wyser. On June 23, 2009, an agreement to modify the prisoner’s sentence, signed by David Wyser, was filed with the Marion County Superior Court and was granted. The charging document alleges that this campaign contribution was provided to Wyser as a reward for his sentence modification recommendation. Hogsett said this case was the result of outstanding law enforcement work by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which is an active partner in the U.S. Attorney’s Public Integrity Working Group. Launched in April 2012, the Working Group represents an unprecedented effort to aggressively investigate and prosecute fraud, waste, and abuse by public officials in Indiana. Hoosiers with information on public corruption are encouraged to contact the U.S. Attorney’s Office at (317) 229-2443. According to Assistant U.S. Attorneys James M. Warden and Zachary A. Myers, who are prosecuting the case for the government, federal bribery charges can result in up to 10 years in prison and significant fines. Wyser’s petition to enter a plea of guilty must be accepted by the court and that change-of-plea hearing has yet to be scheduled. An information is only a charge and is not evidence of guilt. A defendant is presumed innocent and is entitled to a fair trial at which the government must prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption Todd Ryan Frazier, 30, of Grand Rapids, Michigan, was indicted by a grand jury and charged in a 16-count ndictment with counts 1—3, embezzlement and theft from the Carterville School District—a unit of local government that received federal funds; counts 4—13, wire fraud in furtherance of a scheme to defraud the Carterville School District; count 14, false statements to the Federal Bureau of Investigation; count 15, attempting to access a computer of a financial institution without authorization; count 16, uttering a forged check of the Carterville School District, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of Illinois, Stephen R. Wigginton, announced today. The offenses each carry a total statutory maximum sentence of up to 250 years in prison, a fine of up to $3,400,000 and mandatory restitution. The indictment alleges that Todd Ryan Frazier, from August 2008 and continuing through February 2012, engaged in a scheme to defraud the Carterville School District, Unit 5, in Williamson County, Illinois, while he was the School Business Official which included the duties and responsibilities to act as the treasurer and payroll officer for the district. The indictment further alleges that Todd Ryan Frazier lied to the Federal Bureau of Investigation during its investigation when he stated that he had not stolen money from the Carterville School District, nor did he make any false entries into Carterville School District’s payroll system. An indictment is a formal charge against a defendant. Under the law, a defendant is presumed to be innocent of a charge and is entitled to a fair trial at which the government must prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. The indictment is the result of an investigation conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The prosecution is being handled by Assistant U.S. Attorney Norman R. Smith.
corruption JACKSON, Ms—Tony Davis, 48, who previously served as a Jackson Police officer, was arraigned today in federal court before U.S. Magistrate Judge F. Keith Ball pursuant to a federal indictment charging him with bribery in connection with a series of transactions of the city of Jackson, Mississippi Police Department, announced U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis and FBI Special Agent in Charge Daniel McMullen. Davis is scheduled for trial on June 10, 2013, before U.S. District Judge Carlton W. Reeves. If convicted, he faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The public is reminded that an indictment is an allegation that a defendant has committed a crime. All defendants are presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty.
corruption JACKSON, MS—Calvin Louis Smith, 56, a Canton City alderman, was arraigned today in federal court before U.S. Magistrate Judge Linda R. Anderson pursuant to a federal indictment charging him with bribery in connection with a series of transactions of the city of Canton, Mississippi, announced U.S. Attorney Gregory K. Davis and FBI Special Agent in Charge Daniel McMullen. Davis is scheduled for trial on July 9, 2013, before District Judge Henry T. Wingate. If convicted of the charges, he faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The public is reminded that an indictment is an allegation that a defendant has committed a crime. All defendants are presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty.
corruption SACRAMENTO, CA—A federal grand jury returned a one-count indictment today charging Devon Gregory Biggs, 36, of Sparks, Nevada, with theft of government property from the Sierra Army Depot in Herlong, California, United States Attorney Benjamin B. Wagner announced. According to court documents, Biggs was a civilian employee working at the army depot in Lassen County. He was employed in Warehouse 301, which is the initial receiving point for thousands of military items returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. Items being returned are packed in metal shipping containers by military personnel and shipped by truck and rail to Sierra Army Depot. Upon arrival at the depot, the containers are opened and their contents inventoried and then sorted for redistribution, declared excess to the Army’s needs, or sent to be recycled. In his position, Biggs had access to the items before they were inventoried and documented. Depot commander Lieutenant Colonel Christopher Dexter said, “The vast majority of our employees are great Americans, enjoy coming to work, and believe that what they are doing is for the good of the country. We are committed to fighting theft of government property and will investigate any criminal activity that would undermine our mission.” According to the criminal complaint, on April 3, 2013, as a result of tips about Biggs’s activities, law enforcement officers had Biggs under surveillance. Officers saw Biggs leave Warehouse 301 in his truck and then return and transfer a black backpack and other items from his vehicle to the back of a government pickup truck. Officers approached Biggs and detained him for questioning. A search of the backpack revealed it contained sophisticated laser and thermal imaging equipment. Other items were recovered in the government pickup and in Biggs’s private vehicle. The total value of property recovered at the scene was more than $80,000. This case is the product of an investigation by the Law Enforcement Division of the United States Army and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorneys Jean M. Hobler and Christiaan Highsmith are prosecuting the case. Biggs is scheduled to be arraigned on Friday, May 10, 2013. If convicted, Biggs faces a maximum statutory penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Any sentence, however, would be determined at the discretion of the court after consideration of any applicable statutory factors and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, which take into account a number of variables. The charges are only allegations; the defendant is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption NORFOLK, VA—Patrick R. Lambert, 56, of Virginia Beach, Virginia, pleaded guilty today to fraud in connection with a local government receiving federal funds. Neil H. MacBride, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, and Royce E. Curtin, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation Norfolk Office, made the announcement after the plea was accepted by Chief United States District Judge Rebecca B. Smith. Lambert faces a maximum penalty of 10 years’ imprisonment when he is sentenced on August 16, 2013. In a statement of facts filed with the plea agreement, Patrick R. Lambert was a facilities maintenance supervisor with the city of Norfolk and was acquainted with Andrew T. Zoby, Jr., who had a plumbing contract with the city of Norfolk. Lambert owned a home and several rental properties in the cities of Norfolk and Virginia Beach and at various times from approximately 2006 through 2011, would request that Zoby’s plumbing business perform certain work on the properties. Zoby’s employees performed the requested work which had a total value of $17,547.57. Lambert did not pay Zoby or his company for the work that was performed on these properties. In order to obtain reimbursement for these services, Zoby, with the knowledge of Lambert, would submit fraudulent invoices for alleged plumbing services to the city of Norfolk. Lambert was aware of and acquiesced in the payment of these fraudulent invoices. As a result of this scheme, Lambert received free plumbing services in the approximate amount of $17,547.57, and Zoby was reimbursed this amount from the city of Norfolk funds. Zoby has previously pled guilty and will be sentenced on July 10, 2013, in United States District Court in Norfolk. This case was investigated by Federal Bureau of Investigation, Norfolk Office. Assistant United States Attorney Robert J. Seidel, Jr. is prosecuting the case on behalf of the United States. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia at http://www.justice.gov/usao/vae.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida; Michael B. Steinbach, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office; Michael DePalma, Acting Special Agent in Charge, Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI); and Marlies T. Gonzalez, Special Agent in Charge, U.S. Department of Transportation, Office of Inspector General, announce today’s sentencing of defendant Ron Capobianco, Jr., 40, of Pompano Beach, Florida, on charges of bribery in connection with programs receiving federal funds, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 666. U.S. District Judge Robert N. Scola, Jr. sentenced Capobianco to 12 months plus one day in prison. According to documents previously filed with the court, Capobianco, Jr. worked as a construction engineering and inspection consultant at Metric Engineering Inc. (Metric), which specialized in the transportation industry. The Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT) contracted with Metric to provide services, including designing, inspecting, and troubleshooting the construction of roads, signs, and traffic signals. Capobianco, Jr. was assigned as the FDOT District 4 Signalization and Lighting Liaison. In this capacity, he acted as FDOT’s project manager for various signalization and lighting projects. Capobianco, Jr. had a team of employees that assisted him in supervising and inspecting contractors performing FDOT work. Because of his position and expertise, Capobianco, Jr. was consulted as an FDOT expert on certain aspects of signalization and lighting construction, including the use of video detection cameras for traffic signalization and control. According to the documents previously filed with the court, around 2009, FDOT began a road construction project along Highway 1 in the Florida Keys (the Marathon Key project), which was designed to improve traffic flow. Capobianco, Jr. agreed to accept a bribe from a subcontractor working on this project. Around May 2009, an agent of the subcontractor offered to pay a bribe to Capobianco, Jr. if the subcontractor could receive at least $25,000 for the installation of the video detection equipment. Capobianco, Jr. agreed to the subcontractor’s $25,000 estimate for the installation of the video detection devices, thus enabling the subcontractor to make a significant profit. The subcontractor’s estimate was approved and subsequently paid by the state of Florida after the installation of the video detection equipment. Thereafter, Capobianco, Jr. met with an agent of the subcontractor in Plantation, Florida, and was paid $4,000 in cash for his assistance to the subcontractor on the Marathon Key project. Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI, IRS-CI, and the U.S. Department of Transportation-Office of Inspector General in connection with the investigation of this matter. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Jeffrey N. Kaplan.
corruption BALTIMORE—U.S. District Judge Richard D. Bennett sentenced Lynn Carol Williams, age 56, of Middle River, Marylan,d today to six months in prison, followed by six months of home detention with electronic monitoring as part of three years of supervised release, for wire fraud in connection with a scheme to misuse the Freestate Challenge Academy corporate purchasing card, causing losses of more than $107,000. Freestate Challenge Academy is a Maryland National Guard program located at Aberdeen Proving Ground. Judge Bennett also ordered Williams to pay restitution of $107,493. The sentence was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Special Agent in Charge Robert Craig of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service-Mid-Atlantic Field Office; and Chief Chip Honan of the Aberdeen Proving Ground Police Department. According to her plea agreement, from October 2007 through February 2011, Williams worked as an administrative aide at Freestate Challenge Academy, located at Aberdeen Proving Ground. Williams was authorized to use the Academy’s corporate credit card to make purchases for the Academy and was required to prepare a monthly expense report, which included the purchasing card billing statement, original receipts, copies of the approved requisition forms, and a log of activity on the purchasing card. Once her supervisor approved the expense report, it was forwarded to the State of Maryland Military Department, which paid the account balance on the corporate purchasing card. Williams admitted that from February 2008 through October 2010, she used the corporate credit card to buy gift cards and to purchase items over the Internet for her personal use. For example, on May 18, 2010, Williams used the corporate credit card to purchase six gift cards, which she then used to pay for two airline tickets for her and a friend to travel to Los Angeles, California. To conceal her fraud, Williams prepared false logs of the card activity and used her work computer to prepare fictitious receipts, to give the impression she was using the card to make legitimate purchases on behalf of the program, such as for office supplies, snacks for program participants, and other legitimate items. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI, Defense Criminal Investigative Service, and Aberdeen Proving Ground Police for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant U.S. Attorney Joyce K. McDonald, who prosecuted the case.
corruption An indictment was unsealed this morning in federal court in Brooklyn charging New York State Senator John Sampson with two counts of embezzlement, five counts of obstruction of justice, and two counts of making false statements to the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Since 1997, Sampson has served in the New York State Senate (the “Senate”) representing the 19th Senate District in southeastern Brooklyn. From June 2009 to December 2012, Sampson was the leader of the Democratic Conference of the Senate. From January 2011 to December 2012, Sampson was also the Senate minority leader. Sampson has also served as the chairman of the Senate Ethics Committee and the Senate Judiciary Committee. Sampson will be arraigned later today before United States Magistrate Judge Viktor V. Pohorelsky at the U.S. Courthouse at 225 Cadman Plaza East in Brooklyn, New York. The indictment was announced by Loretta E. Lynch, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, and George Venizelos, Assistant Director in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), New York Field Office. “The voters of New York State rightfully expect their elected officials to represent the voters’ interests, not to trade on their positions of power to line their own pockets,” stated United States Attorney Lynch. “As charged in the indictment, for years, Senator John Sampson abused his position of public trust to steal from New Yorkers suffering from home foreclosure and from the very county he was elected to represent. But the former Senate ethics leader didn’t stop there. Senator Sampson allegedly stole that money to fund his own ambition to become Brooklyn’s top state prosecutor, then engaged in an elaborate obstruction scheme to hide his illegal conduct, going so far as to counsel lies and the hiding of evidence.” United States Attorney Lynch thanked the FBI and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Office of the Inspector General for their investigative efforts, as well as the Public Integrity Section and the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Justice for their assistance in this case. FBI Assistant Director in Charge Venizelos stated, “Today, John Sampson has been added to the list of recently indicted New York elected officials. We could view this as an achievement for the FBI and federal prosecutors. But we share what may well be the concern of many New Yorkers that ‘incumbent’ and ‘defendant’ cannot be accepted as interchangeable. Elected officials are referred to as ‘public servants’ and that should not be confused with ‘self-serving.’ The people of New York have a right to demand, at a bare minimum, that their elected representatives obey the law.” The Embezzlement Scheme As charged in the indictment, Sampson is an attorney licensed to practice law in the state of New York, and his law practice has included legal work involving the sale of foreclosed properties. Beginning in the late 1990s, Sampson served as a court-appointed referee for foreclosure proceedings conducted by the Kings County Supreme Court. As referee, Sampson controlled escrow accounts holding proceeds of foreclosure sales of Brooklyn properties. Between 1998 and 2008, Sampson embezzled approximately $440,000 in surplus funds from the foreclosure sales of four Brooklyn properties. The prior owners of the Brooklyn properties, and other parties with a lawful interest, had a right to receive the funds embezzled by Sampson. Sampson indicated that he had illegally diverted the stolen funds to pay expenses arising from his unsuccessful run for Kings County District Attorney in 2005. As alleged in the indictment, in July 2006, Sampson asked an associate who worked in the real estate industry (the “associate”) for $188,500. The associate agreed and, at Sampson’s direction, provided him with these funds in the form of three bank checks payable to third parties (the “associate transaction”). Sampson characterized the associate transaction to the associate as a loan that he would repay, the proceeds of which he would use to cover the tracks of his embezzlement before it was uncovered. However, Sampson took this “loan” without written documentation or any rate of interest. Sampson never repaid the associate. Further, Sampson concealed the associate transaction by lying on his Senate financial disclosure forms, falsely claiming that he had incurred no liabilities in excess of $5,000 or gifts or income in excess of $1,000. The indictment further alleges that Sampson used a portion of the associate transaction funds to pay back some of the money he embezzled from two of the escrow accounts. However, Sampson never repaid any of the approximately $160,000 he stole from the two escrow accounts that are the subject of the embezzlement charges in the indictment. John Sampson’s Obstruction of Justice In the summer of 2011, the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York (the USAO) filed bank and wire fraud charges against the associate in relation to a mortgage fraud scheme (the “mortgage fraud case”). As charged in the indictment, after the associate’s arrest, Sampson engaged in a multifaceted scheme to obstruct justice so as to prevent the associate from cooperating with law enforcement authorities and disclosing Sampson’s criminal conduct. Evidence of Sampson’s obstructive conduct includes intercepted phone calls from Sampson’s cellular telephone. John Sampson’s Use of a USAO Employee to Obstruct Justice According to the indictment, Sampson attempted to obtain confidential, non-public information regarding the mortgage fraud case. Soon after the associate’s arrest, Sampson informed the associate that he knew an individual who, at that time, was an administrative employee in the USAO (the “employee”). Sampson told the associate that he could persuade the employee to give inside information that would assist the associate’s defense in the mortgage fraud case. As alleged in the indictment, Sampson then asked the employee to determine whether the USAO was conducting a criminal investigation of Sampson and whether certain mortgage fraud defendants were cooperating with the government’s investigation. Sampson told the associate that he was attempting to determine the identities of cooperating witnesses in the mortgage fraud case and that if they were able to identify those witnesses, Sampson could arrange to “take them out.” According to the indictment, when the associate asked Sampson about his efforts to use the employee to obtain information about the mortgage fraud case, Sampson was reluctant to discuss those illegal efforts over the telephone. For example, while meeting with the associate in November 2011, Sampson stated, “I can’t talk on the phone....From now on, our conversation is, ‘I don’t have no contacts, you don’t know nothing.’ When we talk, that’s how we talk.” The indictment alleges that FBI agents later confronted the employee concerning his contacts with Sampson. Immediately thereafter, agents searched the employee’s office and located a slip of paper that contained the handwritten names of several individuals who were defendants in proceedings related to the mortgage fraud case. The employee was then suspended and subsequently terminated from his employment at the USAO. John Sampson’s Witness and Evidence Tampering As charged in the indictment, Sampson also obstructed justice by directing the associate to withhold evidence regarding the associate transaction from the government. During a meeting on February 22, 2012, the associate told Sampson that the federal government had subpoenaed the associate’s business records, including a check register page that documented the associate transaction (the “check register page”). Before disclosing the check register page to the government, the associate showed it to Sampson. At that time, Sampson took possession of the check register page, examined it, and stated, “That’s a problem...I mean for me.” Sampson instructed the associate not to disclose the check register page to the government. When the associate stated that it might be a problem to withhold the document from the government, Sampson told the associate to claim that the associate did not maintain all of the associate’s records. Sampson instructed, “Don’t say you don’t have it. Just say you don’t know. I don’t want you to lie, just say you don’t know.” In addition, Sampson told the associate to remove other items from the business records the associate provided to the government to make it appear as though the associate’s records were incomplete. Sampson counseled the associate to falsely claim that the associate transaction was payment for legal work Sampson had performed. Later during this conversation, Sampson instructed the associate that, if the government asked whether the associate ever loaned Sampson money, the associate should say “No.” Sampson also suggested that, alternatively, the associate could falsely claim that the associate “forgave” the associate transaction “loan.” Sampson kept the check register page during and after this meeting and never returned it to the associate. John Sampson’s False Statements to the FBI On July 27, 2012, FBI special agents interviewed Sampson outside his Brooklyn residence. When shown a copy of the check register page, which he had taken from the associate on February 22, 2012, Sampson stated that the document “didn’t ring a bell,” that he “didn’t have a recollection from it,” and that he did not recall seeing it previously. Sampson admitted that he had asked the employee for information on the mortgage fraud case but claimed that he only requested public information from the employee, such as the name of the judge assigned to the mortgage fraud case. When asked why he would request public information from an employee of the USAO, when Sampson himself was an attorney, Sampson stated that he was not “good” with computers. At the conclusion of the interview, the agents advised Sampson that he had lied to federal agents, which constituted a federal crime. When asked whether he wished to revise his statement, Sampson stated, “Not everything I told you was false.” If convicted, Sampson faces up to 10 years of imprisonment for each embezzlement charge, up to 10 years of imprisonment for a charge of obstruction of justice under 18 U.S.C. § 1503(a), up to 20 years of imprisonment for each of the remaining four charges related to obstruction of justice, and up to five years of imprisonment for each false statement charge, as well as restitution, forfeiture, and fines. The government’s case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Daniel Spector, Paul Tuchmann, and Alexander Solomon. Defendant: John L. Sampson Age: 47 Residence: Brooklyn, New York - ADIC George Venizelos’ prepared remarks concerning the arrest of and charges against John Sampson
corruption FBI New York Assistant Director in Charge George Venizelos prepared the following remarks concerning the arrest and charging of State Senator John Sampson: Today, we add one more name to the ever-lengthening list of corrupt New York elected officials. We could view this as an achievement for the FBI and federal prosecutors. The allegations in the indictment are not a complex set of facts. But crimes don’t have to be complex to be sinister. State Senator John Sampson embezzled over $400,000 in mortgage foreclosure proceeds held in escrow accounts. Some of this money he used to fund his ambition to become Brooklyn DA. In an effort to conceal the embezzlement, he borrowed nearly $200,000 from an associate. This “loan” was undocumented and never repaid. The associate was subsequently arrested in a mortgage fraud case and became a cooperating witness. Sampson used an administrative employee of the U.S. Attorney’s Office to try to learn if he was under investigation—and to try to discourage the associate from cooperating. The associate told Sampson that he had a check register page that was evidence of his “loan” to Sampson. Sampson directed the associate to withhold this evidence from the government. In fact, in a recorded meeting with the associate, Sampson took the check register page from him. Sampson told the associate, with regard to the check register, “Don’t say you don’t have it. Just say you don’t know. I don’t want you to lie.” But later in the same meeting, he tells the associate to say, “I don’t have it.” Several months later, FBI agents confronted Sampson about his efforts to obstruct the investigation. He lied about using the U.S. Attorney’s Office employee to get confidential information. And he lied about the check register page. At the conclusion of the interview with FBI agents, they told Sampson he was lying. The best he could do was the tepid defense, “Not everything I told you was false.” The people of this city and state have the right to expect their elected officials to hold themselves to a higher standard of conduct than those they represent. At a bare minimum, the people have a right to expect and demand that their elected representatives at least obey the law. We used to refer to elected officials as “public servants.” But then you start to tally up the number of elected officials who have been treating incumbency like the keys to the treasury. It’s clear that too many of them are self-serving and not serving the public. I want to thank Loretta Lynch and the public corruption unit at the Eastern District for their partnership in this case and in our ongoing efforts to clean up state government. And I want to commend FBI agents Kenneth Hosey and Erin Zacher, their supervisor Robert Hennigan, and all of the agents and analysts of squad C-14 for their outstanding work on this case. - U.S. Attorney’s Office press release concerning John Sampson’s arrest and indictment
corruption A second superseding indictment against New York State Assemblyman William F. Boyland, Jr. was filed today in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. Boyland has served in the New York State Assembly representing the 55th District in Brooklyn since 2003. As alleged in the latest indictment, from July 2007 to September 2010, Boyland engaged in a scheme to defraud New York state by steering public funds to a Brooklyn- based non-profit organization (Non-Profit A) and then directing that a portion of those public funds be used to pay for community events promoting Boyland and on goods such as t-shirts imprinted with the slogan “Team Boyland” which were distributed at those events.1 To conceal this scheme, Boyland allegedly directed members of his staff to instruct vendors involved in the community events to falsely list Non-Profit A, and not Boyland, as the purchaser on invoices for goods purchased for the events. A representative of Non-Profit A then submitted the fraudulent invoices to the New York State Office for the Aging (NYSOFA), which administered the public funds, without disclosing that these invoices were for events and goods promoting Boyland. In furtherance of the scheme, a representative of Non-Profit A also submitted certification forms to the NYSOFA that falsely stated, among other things, that the public funds would not be used for “partisan political activity,” and that Boyland had not and would not receive, either directly or indirectly, any financial benefit from Non-Profit A relating to the public funds. The filing of the second superseding indictment was announced by Loretta E. Lynch, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, and George Venizelos, Assistant Director in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation, New York Field Office. Ms. Lynch expressed her grateful appreciation to the New York State Comptroller’s Office for its assistance in this phase of the investigation. If convicted on the new mail fraud conspiracy, Boyland faces a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison, a $250,000 fine, and restitution. The government’s case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Robert Capers and Lan Nguyen. The Defendant: WILLIAM F. BOYLAND, JR. Age: 42 1 The charges contained in the indictments are merely allegations, and the defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption A Highland Park police officer pleaded guilty today to conspiring with three other police officers to commit extortion and protect a shipment of cocaine, U.S. Attorney Barbara L. McQuade announced today. McQuade was joined in the announcement by FBI Special Agent in Charge Robert D. Foley, III. During a hearing before U.S. District Judge Avern Cohn, Shawn Williams, 33, of Detroit, Michigan, admitted that in late 2012 and early 2013, he agreed with three other Highland Park police officers to take money in exchange for protecting a shipment of cocaine. Williams admitted that on January 23, 2013, he protected two cars containing what he believed to be a total of four kilograms of cocaine. Williams brought his police badge and gun to protect the shipment. Two other Highland Park police officers drove the cars containing what they believed to be cocaine. Later, Williams accepted $1,000 in cash from an FBI informant for his work in delivering and protecting the drug shipment. United States Attorney McQuade said, “Police officers who take bribes have no place in law enforcement. They will be prosecuted for violating their duties to serve the public.” FBI Special Agent in Charge Foley stated, “Police officers who swear an oath to serve and protect are held to the highest standards of ethics and integrity. The FBI is committed to ensuring those standards are maintained, and in cases of abuse, will pursue and prosecute those responsible.” Based on his guilty plea and felony conviction for conspiring to commit extortion, Clayton is facing a maximum of 20 years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000. The case was investigated by agents of the FBI. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney David A. Gardey.
corruption Preet Bharara, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, announced that JIA HOU, a/k/a “Jenny Hou,” and XING WU PAN, a/k/a “Oliver Pan,” were found guilty today in Manhattan federal court of fraud in connection with a fraudulent scheme that involved the use of “straw donors” to funnel large, illegal campaign contributions to the campaign of a candidate (the candidate) for city-wide elective office in 2013 (the campaign). The straw donor scheme was fraudulent in two primary ways. First, it allowed for more money to be directly given to the candidate’s campaign by evading the maximum individual contribution limit. Second, by fraudulently inflating the amount of money directly given by donors to the campaign, it correspondingly entitled the campaign to claim greater matching funds from the city of New York through the city’s matching campaign funds program. The jury found that HOU, the former campaign treasurer, attempted to commit fraud, obstructed justice, and made false statements in connection with the straw donor scheme. The jury found that PAN, a fundraiser and contribution bundler for the campaign, conspired and attempted to commit fraud in connection with the straw donor scheme. They were convicted after a three-week trial before U.S. District Judge Richard J. Sullivan. Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said: “As the jury found, Jia Hou and Oliver Pan stuck a knife into the heart of New York City’s campaign finance law by violating the prohibition against illegal campaign contributions, all to corruptly advantage the campaign of a candidate for city-wide office. Cases like this give the people of New York yet another reason to be troubled by the electoral process, and they have a right to demand fair, open, and honest elections untainted by cynical subversion of campaign finance laws. With these convictions, it is our hope that some measure of the public’s confidence can be restored. We will continue our efforts to stamp out public corruption wherever we find it. We thank the jury for their time and service, and the outstanding prosecutors who so ably tried this case.” According to the complaint and the indictment filed in Manhattan federal court and the evidence presented at trial: HOU and PAN participated in a scheme to defraud New York City by using straw donors to funnel multiple illegal campaign contributions to the candidate’s 2013 campaign for city-wide elective office. One object of the scheme was to increase the amount of matching campaign funds the campaign would receive from the city. New York City law mandates an individual contribution limit of $4,950. On various occasions, certain individuals—including an individual who was actually an undercover FBI agent (the U/C)—who wanted to make donations in excess of that limit arranged for multiple straw donors to make a series of contributions to the campaign that were under the $4,950 limit. The straw donors were then reimbursed for their contributions. On behalf of each straw donor, a campaign contribution form was filled out containing, among other things, the straw donor’s name, address, employment information, the amount donated to the candidate, and the straw donor’s purported signature acknowledging that the straw donor was not being reimbursed in any manner for making the campaign contribution. The city would rely upon the information contained in these fraudulent contribution forms, among other things, in order to determine whether to release matching campaign funds to the candidate’s 2013 campaign on the basis of these contributions. HOU served as the candidate’s treasurer for the 2013 election cycle and was responsible for all financial disclosures related to the 2013 campaign. She was also responsible for accounting for every donation made to the campaign and for ensuring that all donations by individuals to the campaign were within the maximum allowed by New York City. HOU and the candidate were the only individuals authorized to submit disclosure statements on behalf of the campaign. In addition, HOU was responsible for disclosing to the New York City Campaign Finance Board (NYCCFB) the identities of “intermediaries” or “bundlers” involved in soliciting and receiving donations for the campaign. NYCCFB records show that the campaign did not disclose any “bundlers” or “intermediaries” for the 2013 New York City election cycle until January 17, 2012, despite the fact that the campaign had been raising funds for the 2013 New York City election cycle since at least in or about December 2009. On January 17, 2012, the campaign disclosed a list of approximately 59 intermediaries to the NYCCFB, but that disclosure did not include multiple individuals who were intermediaries. Further, the disclosure was not made until a grand jury subpoena seeking information about intermediaries was served on the campaign in December 2011. In addition, the U/C and PAN had multiple conversations concerning the U/C making a large campaign contribution to the candidate’s 2013 campaign that would exceed the maximum allowable contribution of $4,950 for a city-wide elective office during the 2013 election cycle. During these conversations with the U/C, which occurred over the telephone and in person, PAN discussed facilitating this contribution through the use of straw donors who would make contributions to the candidate’s 2013 campaign in their own names and then be reimbursed with cash that PAN received from the U/C. Subsequently, the U/C provided PAN with $16,000 in cash. The straw donors filled out campaign contribution forms that contained, among other things, their names, home addresses, employment information, the amount they each donated to the candidate, and whether it was by check or credit card. The straw donors then signed the contribution forms acknowledging, among other things, that the campaign contributions were in their names, from their own funds, and that they were not being reimbursed in any manner for making the campaign contributions. PAN, using the money received from the U/C, then reimbursed the straw donors for their campaign contributions. PAN also provided to the U/C copies of the completed contribution forms for 18 straw donors, including one for PAN himself, that were submitted to the candidate’s 2013 campaign. In furtherance of the scheme, HOU instructed a campaign volunteer how to imitate the handwriting of campaign donors on donor contribution forms required by the NYCCFB. She also discussed with that campaign volunteer ways to conceal information about intermediaries from the NYCCFB. HOU also offered to reimburse an individual for a donation to the campaign. HOU worked closely with individuals who served as intermediaries in connection with multiple events where straw donors were reimbursed for their contributions, and nevertheless failed to disclose to the NYCCFB the involvement of these intermediaries in the campaign. Finally, in response to the government’s subpoena for documents relevant to the straw donor scheme, HOU obstructed the government’s investigation by withholding e-mails and electronic chats showing her knowledge of, and participation in, the scheme. In one of those electronic chats, Hou explicitly offered to reimburse a friend for making a contribution to the campaign. In addition, when questioned by government officials about her involvement in the scheme and her compliance with the government’s subpoena, Hou made multiple false statements regarding the disclosure of intermediaries who reimbursed straw donors and her production of documents showing her participation in the scheme. HOU, 26, of Queens, New York, was convicted of one count of attempted wire fraud, which carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison, and a maximum fine of $250,000 or twice the gross gain or loss from the offense. She was also convicted of one count of obstruction of justice and making false statements to the FBI. These counts carry a maximum sentence of five and 20 years, respectively. HOU was acquitted of one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud. PAN, 47, of Hudson County, New Jersey, was convicted of one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, and one count of attempted wire fraud, both of which carry a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison, and a maximum fine of $250,000, or twice the gross gain or loss from the offense. HOU is scheduled to be sentenced by Judge Sullivan on September 20, 2013 at 3:30 p.m. PAN is scheduled to be sentenced by Judge Sullivan on September 20, 2013 at 2:00 p.m. Mr. Bharara praised the outstanding investigative work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and expressed appreciation to the New York City Department of Investigation for its contribution to this ongoing investigation. This case is being handled by the Office’s Public Corruption Unit. Assistant United States Attorneys Brian A. Jacobs and Justin Anderson are in charge of the prosecution.
corruption SHREVEPORT, LA—United States Attorney Stephanie A. Finley announced that Robert E. “Red” Stevens, 61, former elected member of the city council of Monroe, Louisiana, pleaded guilty today to accepting cash bribe payments from an FBI cooperating witness in exchange for help with matters pending before the city council. The guilty plea was entered in federal court in Shreveport before United States District Judge Donald E. Walter. Stevens was indicted in 2010 and charged with violating the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act—more commonly known as RICO—and the Hobbs Act, which involves extortion by a public official. During today’s court appearance, Stevens pleaded guilty to the RICO violation; pursuant to a plea agreement with the government, the Hobbs Act count will be dismissed after sentencing. Stevens admitted in court filings that on three separate occasions in 2008 and 2009, he accepted cash bribe payments from a Monroe businessman who was working as a cooperating witness under the direction of the FBI. The payments were in exchange for Stevens’ assistance with matters pending before the city council. Stevens faces a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison, a $250,000 fine, or both. Sentencing in federal court is governed by the advisory United States Sentencing Guidelines and the discretion of the sentencing judge. Sentencing is scheduled for September 26, 2013. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Monroe Resident Agency, and is being prosecuted by First Assistant United States Attorney Alexander C. Van Hook and Counsel to the U.S. Attorney William J. Flanagan.
corruption LITTLE ROCK—Christopher R. Thyer, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Arkansas, along with Randall C. Coleman, Special Agent in Charge of the Little Rock Field Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), announced today that former Arkansas Department of Community Corrections Parole/Probation Officer Roxanne Davis, age 38, of Wynne, pleaded guilty to one count of extortion under color of official right (18 U.S.C. § 1951) before U.S. District Court Judge J. Leon Holmes in Case No. 4:12CR00260 JLH. The remaining count against Davis was dismissed upon the court’s acceptance of the plea. During the change of plea hearing, Davis admitted the following facts: Between October 2007 and October 2011, Davis was an employee of the Arkansas Department of Community Correction (ADCC), serving as a parole/probation officer for parolees/probationers in Lee County, Arkansas, and elsewhere. Davis’s official duties and responsibilities included: monitoring the parolees/probationers’ compliance with the conditions of probation by explaining the rules, regulations, and conditions of parole or probation; administering court-ordered and random drug tests to parolees/probationers and writing parole violation reports upon a positive test; maintaining a chronological history of contacts with parolees/probationers and writing reports accordingly; counseling parolees/probationers during office visits and referring them to various agencies for assistance such as substance abuse counseling and treatment, employment, education, and human services; and making home and community visits to verify parole/probation information and follow-up visits to determine if parolees/probationers are adhering to conditions of parole/probation and to assist them with the community adjustment process. Davis, like all ADCC officers and staff, was prohibited from collecting court-ordered “economic sanctions” from parolees/probationers. Davis was aware that all payments were to be mailed by the parolee/probationer directly to the ADCC Central Office in Little Rock. As part of her ADCC duties and responsibilities, Davis was assigned to supervise Torrence Turner, who was on parole from a first-degree murder conviction. Between October 2007 and October 2011, Davis misused her authority as an ADCC parole/probation officer to collect cash payments and obtain goods from parolee Torrence Turner in exchange for not enforcing Torrence Turner’s parole conditions. For example, in May 2011, Davis accepted cash from Torrence Turner, ostensibly for a “Mother’s Day present” and for a child’s birthday. Davis stipulates that the government would show that her conversations with Torrence Turner concerning these payments were recorded pursuant to a court-authorized wiretap on Torrence Turner’s phone. Between October 2007 and October 2011, Davis received more than $1,000 but less than $5,000 in cash from Torrence Turner in exchange for not enforcing Torrence Turner’s parole conditions. Additionally, in April 2011, upon being notified that the Federal Bureau of Investigation conducted an inquiry into Torrence Turner’s criminal history, Davis informed Torrence Turner of this inquiry so that Torrence Turner could hide his illegal activities, including drug trafficking, from law enforcement. Sentencing will be set by the court at a later date. The potential penalties for a violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1951 are up to 20 years’ incarceration, up to three years’ supervised release, and up to a $250,000 fine. Davis was not detained. Torrence Turner previously pleaded guilty in Case No. 4:11CR00211-1 JMM to conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute and to distribute crack cocaine in violation of 21 U.S.C. § 846. During his change of plea hearing on September 17, 2012, before U.S. District Judge James M. Moody, Turner admitted that he led a drug trafficking organization in Marianna, Arkansas, and that between January 2010 and October 2011, he distributed between 50 and 150 kilograms of cocaine and between 2.8 kilograms and 8.4 kilograms of crack cocaine in Lee County and other counties in the Eastern District of Arkansas. On February 13, 2013, Judge Moody sentenced Turner to 30 years’ incarceration in the Bureau of Prisons, to be followed by five years’ supervised release, and no fine. The investigation was conducted by the United States Attorney’s Office and the FBI, with the assistance of the Arkansas Department of Community Correction-Internal Affairs Division. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Julie Peters.
corruption Former Maury County Corrections Officer Derek Wayne Turner, 38, of Mt. Pleasant, Tennessee, pleaded guilty yesterday in U.S. District Court to charges of conspiring to introduce contraband and controlled substances into a jail, in exchange for cash payments, announced David Rivera, Acting U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Tennessee. Turner was indicted by a federal grand jury on October 25, 2012, along with Maury County Jail inmates Benjamin R. Bradley, 35, and James E. Pierce, 40; Bradley’s mother, Linda Chapman, 52, of Columbia, Tennesee; and Melinda A. Buie, 41, of Mt. Pleasant, Tennessee, and charged with conspiracy to introduce contraband and controlled substances, including tobacco and scheduled drugs, into a jail, between February and June 2011. Turner’s sentencing hearing is scheduled for July 25, 2013, before U.S. District Judge Aleta A. Trauger. Linda Chapman pleaded guilty on April 25, 2013, and is scheduled to be sentenced on July 18, 2013. Both face a maximum penalty of 66 months in prison and a $255,000 fine. This case was investigated by the FBI, the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation, and the Maury County Sheriff’s Department. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Darryl A. Stewart. The charges against Bradley, Buie, and Pierce are still pending. An indictment is merely a charge and is not evidence of guilt. All defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty in a court of law.
corruption WASHINGTON—A former Texas state parole officer was sentenced to 20 months in prison today for taking bribes from one of her assigned parolees in exchange for not reporting his parole violations, announced Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman of the Department of Justice’s Criminal Division. Nichelle Derricks, 38, of Cedar Hill, Texas, pleaded guilty on January 22, 2013, to one count of honest services wire fraud in the Northern District of Texas. According to court documents, while serving as a Texas Department of Criminal Justice (TDCJ) parole officer, Derricks and one of her assigned parolees developed an improper relationship in which Derricks secretly used her official position with TDCJ to enrich herself and others by soliciting and receiving cash payments, gifts, furniture, household goods and items, food and beverages, and other things of value from the parolee in exchange for favorable official action benefitting the parolee. The scheme was conducted without the authorization, knowledge, or approval of TDCJ and contrary to TDCJ procedures and requirements. Derricks admitted she repeatedly failed to report the parolee for violating the terms of his parole, including, among other things, failing to report him for traveling outside Texas without prior, written approval and for engaging in prohibited financial transactions. The case was investigated by the FBI’s Dallas Field Office, with assistance from the U.S. Secret Service and the TDCJ Office of Inspector General. The case is being prosecuted by Trial Attorneys Edward P. Sullivan of the Justice Department Criminal Division’s Public Integrity Section.
corruption Timothy Whitmer, age 53, a resident of Harvey, Louisiana, and former chief administrative officer of Jefferson Parish, was sentenced today to three years’ probation by U.S. District Court Judge Mary Ann Vial Lemmon for misprision of a felony concerning his involvement with Aaron Broussard and Tom Wilkinson in a conspiracy to commit bribery, wire fraud, and theft concerning programs receiving federal funds, announced U.S. Attorney Dana J. Boente and FBI Special Agent in Charge Michael Anderson. Whitmer was also ordered to pay restitution to Jefferson Parish in the amount of $160,430.15, jointly and severally liable with Aaron Broussard, Tom Wilkinson, and Karen Parker. In addition, Judge Lemmon ordered Whitmer to pay a $5,000 fine. Broussard was previously sentenced for his involvement in a conspiracy with Whitmer, Tom Wilkinson, and Karen Parker to steal taxpayer funds when they and others created a sinecure paralegal supervisor position for Parker. Broussard knowingly and illegally diverted taxpayer funds to his ex-wife in the form of her salary for over six years, when Parker did not even possess the most basic credentials or requisite experience to hold the position of paralegal supervisor and repeatedly sought to conceal the illegal nature of her employment with Jefferson Parish by having Parker transferred to the ID Management Office at the East Bank Regional Library in an effort to hide the fact that she was not working for the Parish Attorney’s Office as a paralegal supervisor and was not performing any work as a paralegal. “Mr. Whitmer betrayed the citizens of Jefferson Parish and violated his public trust,” said United States Attorney Boente. “The prosecution should further serve notice that the United States Attorney’s Office will continue its robust investigation and prosecution of public corruption.” “The FBI believes this is a fair and just result given Mr. Whitmer’s role and participation in these corrupt schemes,” added Michael Anderson, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation New Orleans Field Office. The case was investigated by agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and was assisted by the Metropolitan Crime Commission. The case was prosecuted by Strike Force Chief and Assistant U.S. Attorney Brian Klebba, and Assistant U.S. Attorneys Matt Chester, Daniel Friel, and Mimi Nguyen.
corruption GREENBELT, MD—Two former special agents with the U.S. Department of Commerce, Office of Inspector General, Rachel Ondrik, age 35, of Frederick, Maryland, and Kirk Yamatani, age 38, of Ashburn, Virginia, pleaded guilty today to submitting false claims for relocation expenses. Ondrik and Yamatani resigned their positions with the Department of Commerce on March 29, 2013, as required by their plea agreements. The guilty plea was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and Todd Zinser, Inspector General for the U.S. Department of Commerce (DOC). “Today’s announcement is the result of significant efforts by the U.S. Attorney’s Office, the FBI, and my office to hold law enforcement agents accountable for years of criminal misconduct,” said Inspector General Todd Zinser of the U.S. Department of Commerce. “In addition to the fraud perpetrated on the U.S. taxpayers, these now former employees also retaliated by carrying out a destructive campaign of disparagement and false allegations against the Office of Inspector General (OIG).” Mr. Zinser added, “I commend the U.S. Attorney’s Office and the FBI for their diligent efforts and perseverance in conducting this investigation.” According to their plea agreements, in 2009, Ondrik and Yamatani transferred from the DOC OIG’s Atlanta, Georgia office to Washington, D.C. Ondrik and Yamatani were authorized relocation benefits, including a househunting trip, en route travel, and temporary quarters living expenses. E-mails between Ondrik and Yamatani show that both agents were aware of the rules governing their relocations and reimbursements for related expenses, yet both attempted to secure payment from the DOC in amounts significantly exceeding what was authorized and submitted claims for relocation related trips they did not take. For example, Ondrik and Yamatani claimed $4,058.75 and $3,589, respectively, for househunting trips, when in fact, they did not make a househunting trip during the time claimed. Ondrik and Yamatini each also falsely claimed more than $1,500 for travel to their new duty station and falsely claimed reimbursement for temporary quarters living expenses in an amount that was approximately three times what they were authorized. In all, Ondrik and Yamatani each submitted at least three false vouchers seeking reimbursement for $39,563.25 and $36,305.57, respectively. When Ondrik and Yamatani’s claims for reimbursement were denied as being over what the travel regulations allowed, Ondrik and Yamatani persisted in their claims. On several occasions between 2009 and 2011, Ondrik and Yamatani reaffirmed the earlier false statements in their vouchers and made false statements regarding the circumstances of their claims for reimbursement. Between June 2009 and February 2011, Ondrik and Yamatani also committed time and attendance fraud against DOC-OIG, claiming to have worked hours that they did not actually work. The loss to the government attributable to each defendant’s conduct was approximately $14,000. The defendants and the government have agreed that if the court accepts the plea agreement, Ondrik and Yamatani will each be sentenced to a term of probation and ordered to pay a fine of $28,000. In addition, each defendant will be required to pay $14,000 in restitution to the government. U.S. Magistrate Judge Charles B. Day has scheduled sentencing for June 19, 2013, at 2:30 p.m. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI and DOC-OIG for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant U.S. Attorneys Adam K. Ake and Robert K. Hur, who are prosecuting the case.
corruption BATON ROUGE, LA—United States Attorney Donald J. Cazayoux, Jr. announced today that Jeanne L. Gavin, age 61, of Baton Rouge, pled guilty before Chief U.S. District Judge Brian A. Jackson to exceeding authorized access to a government computer, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1030, and engaging in a criminal conflict of interest, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 205. As a result, the defendant faces up to two years in prison, a $200,000 fine, and one year of supervised release following imprisonment. Sentencing is scheduled for September 12, 2013. The defendant’s convictions stem from actions she took while serving as a supervisory Internal Revenue agent and group manager in the Baton Rouge Office of the Internal Revenue Service. In that role, the defendant supervised approximately 10 revenue agents responsible for determining federal tax liability and collecting owing taxes for individual, partnership, and corporate taxpayers. During today’s hearing, the defendant admitted that, while working for the IRS, she engaged in a criminal conflict of interest with her IRS employment by owning and operating a private tax and accounting business that generated over $70,000. The defendant further admitted to using her position as an IRS ,anager to improperly cause subordinates to access IRS databases on over 2,000 occasions for the benefit of her private tax and accounting business. U.S. Attorney Cazayoux stated, “My office, together with our federal, state, and local partners, will continue to aggressively pursue instances of public corruption wherever found. Public confidence in our governmental institutions, particularly those agencies entrusted to tax collection, is vitally important. The criminal acts of a few undermine such confidence, while overshadowing the honest efforts of the vast majority of public servants. My great appreciation to the Office of Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA) who worked tirelessly with our office and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in this important matter.” Inspector General J. Russell George of TIGTA stated, “As our voluntary system of tax administration relies heavily upon the public’s confidence in a fair tax system, IRS employees must conduct themselves with the highest level of integrity and their conduct must be above reproach. Our message is loud and clear: TIGTA will vigorously investigate and recommend criminal prosecution for any IRS employee who violates the law.” This matter was investigated by this office, TIGTA, and the FBI. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Corey R. Amundson who serves as the Senior Deputy Chief of the Criminal Division.
corruption PHILADELPHIA—Lorraine Dispaldo, 58, of Philadelphia, pleaded guilty today to 30 counts of mail fraud, one count of wire fraud, one count of conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud, four counts of filing false personal income tax returns, and one count of bankruptcy fraud. Dispaldo was charged in September 2012, along with then-Philadelphia Traffic Court Judge Robert Mulgrew, in an indictment alleging a scheme to defraud the Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development (DCED). U.S. District Court Judge C. Darnell Jones, II scheduled a sentencing hearing for September 16, 2013. Dispaldo, who was an administrative aide to an unnamed Pennsylvania State Representative at the time, helped orchestrate a scheme to fraudulently receive and misuse Pennsylvania state grant funds awarded to non-profit groups. Between 1996 and 2008, the DCED awarded hundreds of thousands of dollars in grants to two community groups with which Mulgrew and Dispaldo were associated. DCED awarded approximately $397,000 in grants to the Community to Police Communications (CPC) to be used to purchase communications equipment for the police and to purchase materials to secure vacant lots and buildings for the protection of the police. Dispaldo signed the CPC grant contracts with DCED. Between 1997 and 2007, DCED also awarded approximately $460,000 in grants to the Friends of Dickinson Square (FDS) to be used for the maintenance of Dickinson Square, at 4th and Tasker Streets, and the surrounding neighborhood. Dispaldo’s co-defendant Mulgrew signed the FDS grant contracts with DCED. Dispaldo admitted that the grant contracts she submitted misrepresented how the funds would be used. She admitted that, instead of using grant funds exclusively for materials and equipment, as agreed, she instead paid tens of thousands of dollars in CPC and FDS grant funds to Mulgrew’s relatives and associates, including the teenage sons of his friends, and to the state representative’s life-long friends. Dispaldo wrote over $104,000 of the almost $180,000 in impermissible payments made to persons for neighborhood revitalization “work.” While there were several decent gardens built, some trees planted, and much landscaping material purchased, for the most part, the activities undertaken primarily served as a “constituent service” clean-up-the-neighborhood-arm for the representative’s benefit, easy money for favored friends and relatives, a summer make-work program to benefit the teenage sons of Mulgrew’s neighborhood and childhood friends, and some work on private property. To mask the fact that grant funds were being used improperly, Dispaldo falsified her five CPC “close out” reports sent to DCED by concealing most of the $104,000 in payments she made to persons from CPC funds and FDS funds during 2005 through September 2010. At times, Dispaldo submitted to DCED inaccurate IRS forms 1099, which document payments to persons and at other times failed to prepare the forms, as required by law. Dispaldo also improperly paid almost $13,000 in CPC funds to the representative’s office cleaner and improperly used $4,600 in CPC grant funds over the years to pay for her personal cell phone. To conceal the improper payments Dispaldo made to persons, she also submitted to DCED staggering numbers of duplicate phone invoices. For example, she sent in $91,500 worth of receipts in the close-out report for the third grant in the amount of $90,000, but $41,640 of those receipts were already sent in with either the first or second grant close-out reports. In the fourth close-out report, Dispaldo sent in $87,394 in receipts to satisfy the $50,000 grant, but $46,156 of those were previously sent to the state. Dispaldo also pled guilty to filing false personal income tax returns for tax years 2006 through 2009 and pled guilty to one count of bankruptcy fraud for concealing her true income for 2008 and 2009 in her 2010 bankruptcy filing. The case was investigated by the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Paul L. Gray.
corruption ASHEVILLE, NC—A former North Carolina probation officer was sentenced on Thursday, April 25, 2013, in U.S. District Court to serve 17 months in prison for extortion and drug trafficking offenses involving persons under his supervision, announced Anne M. Tompkins, U.S. Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina. James David Franklin, 46, of Lenoir, was also sentenced to three years of supervised release following his prison term. U.S. Attorney Tompkins is joined in making today’s announcement by John A. Strong, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Charlotte Division, and Director Gregory McLeod of the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigations (NC SBI). According to court documents and court proceedings, from April 2001 through July 2010, Franklin, was employed as a surveillance officer by the North Carolina Department of Correction’s Division of Community Corrections (DCC) and supervised probationers on intensive supervision in Burke and Caldwell Counties. According to filed documents, Franklin primarily conducted curfew checks and compliances searches and had arrest power over probationers and parolees. Court records indicate that from in or about July 2009 to in or about July 2010, Franklin used his position on multiple occasions to extort drugs from an individual who had been under Franklin’s supervision (“probationer #2”). Specifically, court records show that Franklin, via text messages and other communications, repeatedly asked probationer #2 to supply him with narcotics, including methamphetamine and hydrocodone. Court records show that Franklin would arrange to retrieve the narcotics from probationer #2’s driveway in exchange for cash. Law enforcement officers were alerted to Franklin’s conduct when probationer #2 complained to his federal probation officer and to his primary North Carolina probation officer. Subsequently, Franklin was placed on desk duty. While on desk duty, Franklin sent a text message to probationer #2 asking him to sell hydrocodone pills in exchange for a portion of the proceeds from the sale. Specifically, Franklin told probationer #2 he would pay him “three dollars a piece” for 125 hydrocodone pills. According to court records, Franklin was apprehended by law enforcement officers when he went to probationer #2’s house to deliver the hydrocodone pills in exchange for $375 in cash. In December 2011, Franklin pleaded guilty to one count of extortion under color of official right and one count of possession with intent to distribute hydrocodone. When announcing the sentence, U.S. District Judge Martin Reidinger noted that the sentence imposed was more than minimally required under the Federal Sentencing Guidelines because the defendant was “a person who by reason of his position had taken actions that undermine the integrity of the legal system.” Franklin has been in custody since April 2011. He will be transferred to the custody of the Federal Bureau of Prisons upon designation of a federal facility. All federal sentences are served without the possibility of parole. The investigation was handled by the FBI and SBI. The case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Michael Savage of the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Charlotte.
corruption SAN DIEGO, CA—United States Attorney Laura E. Duffy announced that David Hedley, a former executive director of the Indian Human Resource Center (IHRC), was arraigned yesterday on an indictment charging him with eight felony counts of theft from the San Diego-based non-profit that received federal funds. The defendant was arrested by Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) agents on April 25, 2013, in Riverside, California. According to the indictment, Hedley served as the executive director of IHRC between approximately September 10 and December 11, 2012. During that time, Hedley is believed to have stolen approximately $140,000 from the non-profit. According to information disclosed at Hedley’s arraignment, on numerous days when Hedley was improperly withdrawing money from IHRC’s bank account, he was spending comparable sums gambling at a local Indian casino. For example, on October 9, 2012, Hedley withdrew $15,000 in cash from the IHRC bank account at the North Island Credit Union (NICU) located in La Mesa, California. On that same day, Hedley purchased $15,000 worth of chips, tokens, or gaming instruments at the Viejas Casino. Similarly, on the October 12, 2012, Hedley improperly withdrew $20,000 in cash from IHRC’s bank account at the NICU branch in Imperial Beach, California, and purchased over $20,000 in chips, tokens, or gaming instruments the same day from Pala Casino. The IHRC was established to train and assist Native Americans with finding employment outside the tribal setting and was awarded over a half million dollars in federal funding from the U.S. Department of Labor over the past two years as part of the Workforce Investment Act (WIA). The Workforce Investment Act of 1998 established a national workforce preparation and employment system to meet the needs of persons seeking employment, including new entrants to the workforce, in order to increase the employment, job retention, earnings, and occupational skills of participants; improve the quality of the workforce, reduce welfare dependency; and improve the productivity and competitiveness of the United States. United States Attorney Laura E. Duffy commented, “The taxpayer resources provided to IHRC were intended to help create jobs by assisting the Native American community. I commend the FBI for its investigative work leading to these charges.” FBI Special Agent in Charge Daphne Hearn commented, “At the most basic level, this case is about one individual’s greed and the abuse of trust. The FBI will hold those accountable who line their own pockets at the expense of the American taxpayer.” Hedley was arraigned on the indictment in the Central District of California before Magistrate Judge David Bristow; Hedley pleaded not guilty. Magistrate Judge Bristow set bail at $100,000 and ordered the defendant to appear in the Southern District of California on May 9, 2013. The public is reminded that an indictment is not evidence that the defendant committed the crime charged. The defendant is presumed innocent until the United States meets its burden in court of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. Defendant in Criminal Case No. 13CR1129-WQH David M. Hedley Age: 38 San Diego Summary of Charges Counts 1-8: Title 18, United States Code, Section 666(a)(1)(A)-theft from program receiving federal funds forfeiture: Title 18, United States Code, Sections 981(a)(1)(C) and Title 28, United States Code, Section 2461(c) Investigating Agencies Federal Bureau of Investigation California Department of Justice, Bureau of Gambling Control
corruption TERRE HAUTE—U.S. Attorney Joseph H. Hogsett announced this afternoon the arrests and indictments of Frank Mejean, age 51, and his wife Antonnette Mejean, age 48, both of Sullivan County. Since 2009, Frank Mejean has served as the elected trustee of Jefferson Township, and he has employed his wife as Township Clerk and Township Investigator. The pair now face prosecution as the U.S. Attorney’s Office has redoubled efforts to combat fraud and waste by public officials in Indiana through the launch of a Public Integrity Working Group. “Our message has been consistent over the last year, but bears repeating today: it doesn’t matter to me what your politics are or what position you hold in your community,” Hogsett said. “If you violate the public trust, our Public Integrity Working Group will find you, will investigate you, and the U.S. Attorney’s Office will then prosecute you to the fullest extent of the law.” According to federal charging documents unsealed this morning, Frank Mejean has served as the elected trustee for Jefferson Township since early 2009, and he allegedly hired his wife Antonnette to serve as Township Clerk and Township Investigator shortly after taking office. It is also alleged that he awarded his wife a lawn maintenance contract serving Jefferson Township. From early 2009 until this morning, it is alleged that the pair engaged in a scheme to defraud taxpayers by overpaying their salaries every year, as well as overcompensating Antonnette for the lawn maintenance contract. It is also alleged that the two defendants engaged in a scheme to submit false financial documents to the Indiana State Board of Accounts to attempt to cover up these improper expenditures. The indictment alleges the following amounts were overpaid in salaries and compensation: Year Frank Antonnette Lawn Care 2009 $13,343.63 $6,091.10 $11,687.76 2010 $3,007.32 $162.32 $5,133.00 2011 $15,378.42 $2,239.98 $2,803.32 2012 $15.378.42 $15,378.42 $2,803.32 In addition, it is alleged that the pair used Jefferson Township funds to pay a variety of personal expenses and also funneled taxpayer money into a business owned by Frank Mejean known as Frank Mejean Plumbing. These payments allegedly totaled tens of thousands of dollars over the last four years. Hogsett said this case was the result of outstanding law enforcement work by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Indiana State Board of Accounts, the Indiana State Police, and the Internal Revenue Service. All these agencies are partners in the U.S. Attorney’s Public Integrity Working Group, which was launched in April 2012 with the stated purpose of aggressively investigating allegations of public fraud, waste, and abuse by public officials in Indiana. Hoosiers with information on public corruption are encouraged to contact the U.S. Attorney’s Office at (317) 229-2443. According to Senior Litigation Counsel Bradley A. Blackington, who is prosecuting the case for the government, both defendants face three counts of wire fraud. If convicted, they could be sentenced to up to 20 years in federal prison, and they could also face significant fines and federal supervision for up to five years once they have served their prison term. An indictment is only a charge and is not evidence of guilt. A defendant is presumed innocent and is entitled to a fair trial at which the government must prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption The former assistant chief of police for Centreville, Illinois, pled guilty in U.S. District Court on April 25, 2013, to making false statements to federal law enforcement officers, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of Illinois, Stephen R. Wigginton, announced today. Corey Allen, 31, admitted that he lied to federal law enforcement officers while they investigated whether he sold a gun to a convicted felon. Allen was indicted by the federal grand jury on December 11, 2012, following an inquiry into whether he sold a gun to a registered sex offender. On November 30, 2012, Allen was interviewed by federal agents who asked him whether he supplied Individual #1 with a firearm. Allen stated that he did not supply the gun to Individual #1, claiming that he had no idea where Individual #1 had gotten the gun. Allen further stated that he had never seen the gun before federal agents recovered it on October 11, 2012. Allen admitted in court documents that he had previously possessed the firearm and in fact had sold the gun to Individual #1 for $100 on May 3, 2012, knowing that Individual #1 was a felon and a registered sex offender. Allen stated that he came into possession of the firearm while working as a police officer, but rather than documenting the recovery of the weapon he simply kept it and later sold it. The crime of making a false statement to a federal law enforcement officer is punishable by up to five years in prison, a $250,000 fine, and not more than three years’ supervised release upon release from prison. However, the United States Sentencing Guidelines must be applied to the case and considered by the court during sentencing. Court documents explained that, under the Sentencing Guidelines, Allen will be sentenced for the more serious offense of selling a firearm to a felon in addition to his conduct of making false statements. Sentencing has been scheduled for August 30, 2013. US Attorney Stephen Wigginton said, “Instead of upholding the oath he took to protect his community, this officer personally armed a sex offender with a stolen gun, then lied to federal agents about what he had done. He threw away his career, tarnished the badge, and endangered his community for a few dollars.” The investigation was conducted through the Metro East Public Corruption Task Force by agents from the Internal Revenue Service and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Steven D. Weinhoeft.
corruption Wifredo A. Ferrer, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida; Michael B. Steinbach, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Miami Field Office; and Manuel Orosa, Chief, City of Miami Police Department, announced that Harold James, former City of Miami Police officer, was sentenced yesterday by U.S. District Judge Robert N. Scola to 15 months’ imprisonment as to each count of the two-count information, to be followed by two years’ supervised release. The imposed sentence stems from charges of extortion under color of official right, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1951(a). The FBI, working in conjunction with the City of Miami Police Department, initiated an investigation after receiving information that City of Miami Police officers were facilitating illicit gambling activity taking place at Player’s Choice, a barber shop located in Miami. In April 2012, during the course of the investigation, James met with and took a cash payment from a cooperating source for providing security at the gambling establishment. It was at this meeting that James was told of another illicit operation. James agreed to participate in the second scheme and agreed to take cash for his involvement. On five separate occasions, James provided protection for a courier who he believed was cashing fraudulent government checks at the check cashing store. He did so while in full uniform and while driving his marked City of Miami Police Department vehicle. James, in an effort to further facilitate the criminal activity, notified the cooperating source when there would be law enforcement activity in the area of the check cashing store. In exchange for providing security of the courier who was purportedly cashing fraudulent government checks at the check cashing store, James took receipt of approximately $800 cash. U.S. Attorney Wifredo A. Ferrer stated, “The criminal conduct of this officer and other public officials undermines the public trust. This sentence sends a message to all public officials who commit crime that they are not above the law.” “Law enforcement officers are in a position of public trust and therefore must be held to a high standard,” said Michael B. Steinbach, Special Agent in Charge of FBI Miami. “James violated that trust and was brought to justice in large part due to the dedication and commitment of the members of the Miami Area Corruption Task Force and the City of Miami Police Department.” Mr. Ferrer commended the investigative efforts of the FBI Miami Area Public Corruption Task Force and the City of Miami Police Department. This case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Robin W. Waugh. A copy of this press release may be found on the website of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida at http://www.usdoj.gov/usao/fls.
corruption BALTIMORE—A federal grand jury returned a racketeering indictment charging 25 individuals, including 13 correctional officers with the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services, for conspiring to run operations of the Black Guerilla Family (BGF) gang inside correctional facilities. All 25 defendants also are charged with conspiracy to distribute and possession with intent to distribute drugs, and 20 of the defendants are charged with money laundering conspiracy. The indictment and a detailed affidavit were unsealed today upon the arrests of the defendants and the execution of 15 search warrants. Approximately 170 agents and officers assisted in today’s arrests and search warrants. The indictment was returned on April 2, 2013. One defendant was killed in a robbery several hours before the indictment was filed. The defendants are identified at the conclusion of this press release. The indictment arose from the efforts of the Maryland Prison Task Force, a group of local, state, and federal stakeholders that met regularly for more than two years and generated recommendations to reform prison procedures. The indictment was announced by United States Attorney for the District of Maryland Rod J. Rosenstein; Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Baltimore Police Commissioner Anthony W. Batts; Secretary Gary D. Maynard of the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services; and Chief Mark A. Magaw of the Prince George’s County Police Department. U.S. Attorney Rosenstein also recognized the efforts of the other members of the Maryland Prison Task Force in this investigation and prosecution, including: Baltimore City State’s Attorney Gregg L. Bernstein; Colonel Marcus L. Brown, Superintendent of the Maryland State Police; United States Marshal Johnny Hughes; Special Agent in Charge Karl C. Colder of the Drug Enforcement Administration-Washington Field Division; Tom Carr, Director of the Washington-Baltimore High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area; and Dave Engel, Executive Director of the Maryland Coordination and Analysis Center. “Correctional officers were in bed with BGF inmates, in violation of the first principle of prison management,” said U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein. “Preventing prison corruption requires intensive screening at prison entrances and punishment for employees who consort with inmates or bring cell phones and drugs into correctional facilities.” “This investigation revealed the pervasive nature of prison corruption in Baltimore City’s Detention Centers,” said FBI Special Agent in Charge Stephen E. Vogt. “Such corruption causes the FBI to divert crucial investigative resources away from addressing violence on the streets of Baltimore. In this case, the inmates literally took over ‘the asylum,’ and the detention centers became safe havens for the BGF. Such a situation cannot be tolerated. Law enforcement should not have to concern itself with criminal subjects who have already been arrested and relegated to detention centers.” “Ninety-nine percent of our correctional officers do their jobs with integrity, honesty, and respect,” said Secretary Gary Maynard of the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services. “Today’s indictment, along with those in the past, show that our department will not stand idly by and let a few bad actors affect the security of our institutions. Nor will we allow them to impugn the reputation of the men and women who come to work every day and go about their jobs honorably. Those who would break the law should know we will always work tirelessly with our federal, state, and local partners to root out corruption.” “Today’s multi-jurisdictional takedown of suspected BGF gang members and orchestrators who infiltrated the criminal justice system is another example of the Baltimore Police Department’s relentless focus on targeting the malignant gang organizations that plague our communities,” said Police Commissioner Anthony Batts. “Thanks to the hard working detectives, federal agents, and prosecutors who worked behind the scenes to build these cases. Our continued pledge to the people of Baltimore is that we will leverage the full capacity of our state and federal partnerships to identify those responsible for violence and bring them to justice.” The 10 men and 15 women charged in the indictment are alleged to be members or associates of the BGF, a gang active in prisons throughout the United States. According to the indictment, BGF has been the dominant gang at the Baltimore City Detention Center (BCDC) and in several connected facilities, especially the Baltimore Central Booking Intake Center, the Women’s Detention Center (which houses many men), and in the Jail Industries Building. The indictment alleges that since at least 2009, BGF members and associates in BCDC and related prison facilities engaged in criminal activities, including drug trafficking, robbery, assault, extortion, bribery, witness retaliation, money laundering, and obstruction of justice. BGF members and associates allegedly bribed correctional officers at BCDC and related prison facilities to smuggle drugs, cell phones, and other contraband. Correctional officers arranged favored treatment and privileges for imprisoned BGF gang members, and officers thwarted interdiction and law enforcement efforts against BGF inmates. BGF members and associates allegedly had long-term sexual relationships with several correctional officers and impregnated them. BGF leaders allegedly used contraband cell phones to order contraband. Co-conspirators delivered contraband to corrupt correctional officers who smuggled the items into the prisons. Correctional officers often arranged payment for the contraband. Some gang dues and drug profits were used to support activities of BGF street organizations outside the prisons. The charging documents allege that correctional officers were able to bring contraband directly into the prisons through the main entrances. Inside the prisons, BGF was able to control contraband smuggling because BGF gang members were designated as “working men.” Working men are inmates who are paid to assist management and are free to move about the facility. Green Dot cash debit cards were allegedly used by inmates to pay BGF for smuggled contraband and used by BGF to transfer criminal proceeds. Luxury automobiles were among the purchases made by BGF with Green Dot cards. According to the indictment, members, and associates followed directions from the ranking BGF members in BCDC, especially inmate Tavon White. On January, 5, 2013, White explained in a phone call: “This is my jail. You understand that? I’m dead serious....I make every final call in this jail...and nothing go past me, everything come to me....Any of my brothers that deal with anybody, it’s gonna come to me. You see what I am saying? Everything come to me. Everything. Before a mother-f—— hit a n—— in the mouth, guess what they do, they gotta run it through me. I tell them whether it’s a go ahead, and they can do it or whether they hold back. Before a mother-f—— stab somebody, they gotta run it through me....Anything that get done must go through me. ” Tavon White summarized his position in a conversation with correctional officer Adrena Rice on February 11, 2013: “I told them worker men that they had to step down off the worker men spots or they was getting hit....I hold the highest seat you can get....My word is law...so if I told any mother-f—— body they had to do this, hit a police, do this, kill a mother-f——, do anything, it got to get done. Period.” White allegedly used contraband cell phones to discuss BGF activities inside BCDC, such as the collection of fees and taxes, to request information about inmates, to hear grievances from other BGF inmates, and to coordinate his contraband smuggling operation. White and other gang members developed sexual relationships with officers in order to gain influence over them. White allegedly had long-term sexual relationships inside BCDC with four correctional officers—Jennifer Owens, Katera Stevenson, Chania Brooks, and Tiffany Linder—impregnating each of the four officers at least once. Owens had “Tavon” tattooed on her neck and Stevenson had “Tavon” tattooed on her wrist. All four officers allegedly help smuggle contraband into BCDC and related facilities. White allegedly gave Owens a diamond ring and provided luxury automobiles to Owens, Stevenson, and Brooks. The indictment includes many overt acts in furtherance of the racketeering enterprise. For example, in November 2012, correctional officer Jasmin Jones allegedly stood guard outside a closet in BCDC so that correctional officer Kimberly Dennis and inmate Derius Duncan could have sex. Corrupt officers also warned BGF inmates about law enforcement operations. For example, Brooks and Linder allegedly notified White when they learned about upcoming canine scans and jail cell searches. The affidavit specifies two occasions in which warning calls to White were intercepted: December 21, 2012 (from Brooks) and January 6, 2013 (from Linder). White then used his cell phone to spread the word to other inmates. On January 6, 2013, White allegedly said: “I just got a message (from Officer Tiffany Linder) saying that they was going to pull a shake down (prison search) tonight. Let me call all these dudes in my phone and let them know.” The U.S. Attorney expressed appreciation to Secretary Maynard and select members of his senior staff who confidentially arranged for 30 trusted correctional officers from outside Baltimore to join with federal agents and conduct surprise searches of BGF members and their jail cells on February 14, 2013, resulting in the discovery of important evidence. The indictment seeks the forfeiture of $500,000 and other proceeds of the enterprise, including luxury automobiles. The defendants face a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison on the racketeering and drug conspiracies, as well as for conspiracy to commit money laundering. Stevenson, Yarborough, and Pinder each also face five years in prison for possession with intent to distribute marijuana. The defendants are expected to have initial appearances in U.S. District Court in Baltimore this afternoon. An indictment is not a finding of guilt. An individual charged by indictment is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty at some later criminal proceedings. United States Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein praised the FBI, Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services, Baltimore Police Department, the Prince George’s County Police Department and Maryland Prison Task Force, Baltimore City Assistant State’s Attorneys Kevin Wilson, and Katie O’Hara for their work in the investigation. Mr. Rosenstein thanked Assistant United States Attorneys Robert R. Harding and Ayn B. Ducao, who are prosecuting this Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force case. The following defendants are charged in the indictment unsealed today: Inmates: Tavon White, a/k/a Bulldog and Tay, age 36, of Baltimore Jamar Anderson, a/k/a Hammer and Hamma Head, age 26, of Baltimore Derius Duncan, age 26, of Baltimore Steven Loney, a/k/a Stevie, age 24, of Baltimore Jermaine McFadden, a/k/a Maine, age 24, of Baltimore Kenneth Parham, age 23, of Baltimore Joseph Young, a/k/a Monster, age 30, of Baltimore Correctional officers: Antonia Allison, age 27, of Baltimore Ebonee Braswell, age 26, of Baltimore Chania Brooks, age 27, of Baltimore Kimberly Dennis, age 26, of Baltimore Jasmin Jones, a/k/a J.J., age 24, of Baltimore Taryn Kirkland, age 23, of Baltimore Katrina LaPrade, a/k/a Katrina Lyons, age 31, of Baltimore Tiffany Linder, age 27, of Baltimore Vivian Matthews, age 25, of Essex, Maryland Jennifer Owens, a/k/a O and J.O., age 31, of Randallstown Adrena Rice, age 25, of Baltimore Katera Stevenson, a/k/a KK, age 24, of Baltimore Jasmine Thornton, a/k/a J.T., age 26, of Glen Burnie Outside suppliers: Tyesha Mayo, age 29, of Baltimore Teshawn Pinder, age 24, of Baltimore Tyrone Thompson, a/k/a Henry, age 36, of Baltimore Ralph Timmons, Jr., a/k/a Boosa, age 34, of Baltimore (deceased) James Yarborough, a/k/a J.Y., age 26, of Baltimore.
corruption LEXINGTON, KY—A federal indictment was unsealed today charging former Kentucky Agriculture Commissioner Richard Dwight Farmer, Jr. with misusing and misappropriating money and property belonging to the Kentucky Department of Agriculture (KDA) during his tenure. The indictment, filed Friday, April 19, charges Farmer, 43, with four counts of misappropriating property and funds of the KDA, a state agency that receives more than $10,000 annually in federal funds. Each of the four counts covers alleged misconduct occurring in separate calendar years beginning with 2008 and ending with 2011. Farmer is also charged with one count of soliciting property of value in exchange for intending to be influenced in KDA matters. According to the indictment, Farmer abused his authority throughout his tenure, using KDA funds to obtain rifles, clothes, hotel rooms, computer equipment, and home appliances, all for himself, friends, and family. One example of Farmer’s alleged misuse of funds occurred in 2008, at the Southern Association of State Departments of Agricultural Conference held in Kentucky. The indictment alleges Farmer bought a surplus of gifts for participants and conference workers, such as rifles, watches, case knives, and personalized cigar boxes, and then kept the excess gifts for his personal use. The indictment also alleges that Farmer misused his position to secure jobs for his friends. According to the indictment, Farmer directed the KDA to create several paid “special assistant” positions. He hired friends for these positions, and he ensured that they operated with little oversight and performed minimal official work. Some of these special assistants received state government salaries in exchange for performing home improvement projects and other personal services for Farmer. Additionally, on multiple occasions, Farmer allegedly bought hotel rooms at the Kentucky State Fair for extended family using KDA’s money. Another count in the indictment alleges that Farmer solicited and accepted property from an eastern Kentucky motor vehicle dealership, intending to be influenced in the decision in which he attempted to award KDA grant money to the dealership. The U.S. government is seeking the forfeiture of $450,000, which represents the approximate total amount of KDA money that Farmer allegedly misused. The KDA is a state government agency that is funded, in part, with money provided by the federal government. The indictment alleges that the KDA receives millions of dollars annually in federal money. Farmer was elected to two terms as commissioner of Agriculture and was responsible for the supervision and administration of the KDA from January 2004 until January 2012. Kerry B. Harvey, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky; Perrye Turner, Special Agent in Charge, FBI; and Jack Conway, Kentucky Attorney General, jointly announced the indictment today. The investigation preceding the indictment was conducted by the Kentucky Attorney General’s Office and the FBI. The indictment was presented to the grand jury by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Kenneth R. Taylor and Andrew T. Boone and trial attorney Sean Mulryne with the Public Integrity Section of the United States Department of Justice. A date for Farmer to appear in court has not yet been scheduled. Each count carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and up to a $250,000 fine. However, any sentence following a conviction would be imposed by the Court after consideration of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and the federal statutes. Any indictment is an accusation only. A defendant is presumed innocent and is entitled to a fair trial at which government must prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption ST. LOUIS, MO—The fire chief for the Kinloch Fire Protection District, Darran Kelley, was arrested earlier today on warrants issued as a result of a federal grand jury indictment that was filed on Wednesday, April 17, 2013, charging Kelley with the unauthorized use of more than $140,000 of district funds from January 2007 to January 11, 2013. The indictment also charges Kelley with making a false statement relative to his receipt of Social Security disability payments. Kelley has been the district fire chief since 2002. According to the indictment, the Kinloch Fire Protection District maintained a district banking account for the receipt and disbursement of district funds. From January 2007 through January 2013, the district received approximately $160,361 in tax revenues from St. Louis County, Missouri, and the city of Kinloch distributed city funds to the district’s bank account for payroll and operations of the district. The indictment alleges that it was a part of Kelley’s scheme that on one or more occasions he made unauthorized cash withdrawals from the district’s bank account for his own personal use, including for the purchase of various personal items and for gambling at several casinos in the St. Louis area, that were unrelated to the legitimate operations of the district. It was a further part of Kelley’s scheme that on one or more occasions, he made unauthorized transfers of funds from the district’s bank account to pay for charges on his own personal Mastercard credit card, which were unrelated to the legitimate operations of the district. In June 2010, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) awarded the district a grant of $237,500 to cover 95 percent of the $250,000 total cost of a fire engine, based upon an application submitted by Kelley. The city of Kinloch also distributed $15,000 of city funds to the district to cover the district’s responsibility to pay five percent of the cost of the fire engine. The indictment alleges that some of these funds were later used by Kelley to purchase personal items and for gambling at several casinos. The indictment alleges that during April 2011, it was widely reported by the St. Louis area media that the district was unable to pay the insurance premium due on the newly purchased fire engine. The premium then due was reported to be approximately $2,322. Numerous private citizens saw the media reports and made donations to the district to pay for the insurance premium, which donations totaled well in excess of the premium then due. Kelley paid the insurer $2,322, and the remaining donated funds were retained in the district’s bank account and later used by Kelley to purchase personal items and for gambling at several area casinos. While Kelley engaged in the unauthorized use of district funds, there were substantial outstanding bills from AmerenUE for electric service, American Water for water service, to AT&T for telephone and communications services, and to North Central County Fire Alarm System for dispatch services, radios, and pagers. Many of these bills went unpaid as a result of his alleged criminal conduct, and some of the necessary services were reduced or cut off due to non-payment. The indictment also alleges that beginning on August 15, 2000, Kelley began receiving monthly disability benefit payments through the Social Security Administration pursuant to his application for benefits relative to a personal medical condition. Following his initial application, and in order for the Social Security Administration to determine his continued eligibility for disability benefits, he was required to immediately report any work and income and to periodically verify his continued disability and report any work on Continuing Disability Review Reports. The indictment alleges that Kelley failed to truthfully report his work for the Kinloch Fire Protection District and his income from that work to the Social Security Administration. The indictment states that on July 26, 2011, Kelley made a false statement on his Continuing Disability Review Report by stating that he had not worked since April 1, 2006, the date of his last medical disability decision, when, in fact, he had been working as the paid chief of the Kinloch Fire Protection District during that period of time. Kelley was paid a salary of approximately $640 every two weeks until December, 2011. Kelley, 47, Ferguson, Missouri, was indicted by a federal grand jury on three felony counts of wire fraud, one felony count of federal program theft, and one felony count of making false statements. If convicted, each count of wire fraud carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and/or fines up to $250,000; federal program theft carries a maximum of 10 years prison and/or fines up to $250,000; and false statement carries a maximum of five years prison and/or fines up to $250,000. In determining the actual sentences, a judge is required to consider the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines, which provide recommended sentencing ranges. This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the St. Louis County Police Department, and Social Security Administration Office of Inspector General. Assistant United States Attorney Hal Goldsmith is handling the case for the U.S. Attorney’s Office. As is always the case, charges set forth in an indictment are merely accusations and do not constitute proof of guilt. Every defendant is presumed to be innocent unless and until proven guilty.
corruption Preet Bharara, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, announced that Ali Oklu, a former New York City Police Department (NYPD) officer, was sentenced today to 46 months in prison for participating in a scheme to illegally transport firearms, including M-16 rifles and handguns, and stolen goods across state lines. Oklu was sentenced by U.S. District Judge William H. Pauley, III. Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said, “Ali Oklu betrayed the NYPD and the fine men and women who serve there so honorably, even going so far as to conspire to bring firearms into New York where his brother and sister officers—as far as he knew—might have been potentially in the firing line. With his sentence today, he will now be punished for his crimes.” According to the court filings and statements made in court: From September 2010 to October 2011, Oklu participated in the transportation of firearms and what he believed were stolen goods across state lines. He was an active duty NYPD officer at the time he committed the offenses. The firearms Oklu helped transport included three M-16 rifles, one shotgun, and 16 handguns, the majority of which had been defaced to remove or alter the serial numbers and all of which had been rendered inoperable. The goods he helped transport, and that he thought were stolen, included 12-slot machines and thousands of cartons of cigarettes, as well as various counterfeit merchandise. In total, the goods that Oklu and his co-conspirators illegally transported carried a street value of approximately $1 million. Oklu was recruited to join the conspiracy in early October 2010 by its leader and organizer and fellow NYPD Officer William Masso. The trips in which Oklu participated included two trips to transport purportedly stolen slot machines from Atlantic City to New York; multiple trips to transport hundreds of cases of purportedly stolen cigarettes from New Jersey to New York; a trip to Virginia to take part in the purported theft of hundreds of cases of cigarettes from trucks parked outside a warehouse; and the final trip during which 20 firearms, many of which were defaced, and all of which were rendered inoperable, were transported interstate. In total, Oklu was paid $35,000 for his role in the transport of the firearms and purportedly stolen goods. Oklu specifically discussed with his co-conspirators using their law enforcement credentials and applying their law enforcement expertise in preparing for and carrying out these schemes. For example, in a meeting in March 2011, Masso explained that they should carry their law enforcement badges during the operation and, if stopped, say they were police officers working off-duty to deliver items that had been purchased at an auction. The group also discussed using their specialized knowledge as law enforcement officers in determining the ideal vehicles to rent to transport the goods. Oklu specifically recommended that the group not travel together in the rental vehicles they used to transport the purportedly stolen goods in order to avoid raising the suspicion of law enforcement. During his guilty plea, OKLU admitted that he had knowingly transported what he believed were stolen cigarettes, slot machines, and other merchandise across state lines and had willfully transported firearms across state lines. In addition to the prison term, Judge Pauley sentenced Oklu, 36, of Sunnyside, New York, to three years of supervised release and ordered him to pay a $7,500 fine and a $200 special assessment fee. Judge Pauley also imposed on Oklu an agreed upon forfeiture amount of $35,000, representing his share of the crime proceeds. Pursuant to Oklu’s guilty plea, Oklu relinquished his interests in guns seized from him at the time of his arrest. Mr. Bharara praised the investigative work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Internal Affairs Bureau of the NYPD. This prosecution is being handled by the Office’s Public Corruption and Complex Frauds Units. Assistant United States Attorney Carrie H. Cohen is in charge of the prosecutions.
corruption James S. Bedell, 58, of Edwardsville, Illinois, the former police chief from that city, pled guilty to an information charging four counts of embezzlement and theft from the city of Edwardsville—a local government that received federal funds for the calendar years 2009, 2010, 2011, and 2012, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of Illinois Stephen R. Wigginton announced today. The offenses each carry a statutory maximum sentence of up to 10 years in prison, a fine of up to $250,000, and mandatory restitution. Sentencing is scheduled for August 2, 2013. “I am disgusted and saddened when called upon to prosecute someone who had sworn to uphold the law. By far and away, most police officers are above reproach. They are the constant guardians of our very freedom. Unfortunately, individuals sometimes succumb to their greed, stealing from those they have vowed to protect and serve. In instances like that, I will not hesitate to bring full and thorough prosecutions.” said United States Attorney Wigginton. “Police officers are held to a higher standard. While most exceed that standard, day in and day out, often the few who do not get the most attention.” As revealed in open Court, Bedell was employed as the director of Police and was referred to as the chief of police of the city of Edwardsville from approximately 2007 through October 5, 2012. As part of the plea, Bedell admitted that from July 2009 through September 2012, while chief for the city of Edwardsville, he unlawfully removed cash and money orders from a lockbox in the police department that contained vehicle impound fees. The city of Edwardsville charges a $300 fee for vehicles towed as a result of certain enumerated violations. The $300 administrative fee must be paid by cash or money order, and the paid administrative fee is revenue to the city that must be properly accounted for. Accordingly, such funds received are not for the personal use of an employee of the city of Edwardsville. Bedell admitted as part of the plea that he converted some of the funds to his personal use, generally to support a gambling habit. The United States has indicated that it believes the total loss is approximately $138,000. Bedell is contesting this calculation of the loss amount. The Information is the result of an investigation conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Illinois State Police, with the assistance of the city of Edwardsville. The prosecution is being handled by Assistant U.S. Attorney Norman R. Smith.
corruption A former associate superintendent and acting CFO of Pontiac Schools was sentenced today to 12 months in federal prison followed by one year home confinement, three years of supervised release, and ordered to pay restitution to Pontiac Schools in the amount of $336,000 after having been convicted of one count of defrauding a program receiving federal funding, announced United States Attorney Barbara McQuade. McQuade was joined in the announcement by Special Agent in Charge Robert D. Foley, III, Federal Bureau of Investigation. Jumanne Sledge, 41, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Denise Page Hood in Detroit, Michigan. In February 2010, Sledge directed a subordinate at Pontiac Schools to issue a check payable to his “International Leadership Academy” in the amount of $236,000. Sledge cashed the check and deposited it into his bank account. When later asked for an invoice and purchase order, Sledge created a false invoice to make it appear a payment for a legitimate service. Sledge used the money to finance luxury vehicles, travel and other personal items. “Among all of the corruption defendants we charge, school officials who steal money are particularly culpable because they are robbing children of their education,” McQuade said. This case was investigated by the FBI and the U.S. Department of Education, Office of Inspector General. AUSA J. Michael Buckley investigated and prosecuted the case for the United States.
corruption David B. Fein, United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, and Kimberly K. Mertz, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, announced that two individuals pleaded guilty today in New Haven federal court to conspiracy charges stemming from a scheme to direct illegal campaign contributions into the campaign of a candidate for the U.S. House of Representatives. Joshua Nassi, 34, of Fairfield, and Benjamin Hogan, 33, of Southington, each pleaded guilty before United States District Judge Janet Bond Arterton to one count of conspiracy to make false statements to the Federal Election Commission and to impede the FEC’s enforcement of federal campaign finance laws. “With today’s guilty pleas, six individuals have now acknowledged their involvement in a scheme to disguise the source of contributions to a federal campaign, contributions that were given to influence legislation pending before the Connecticut General Assembly,” stated U.S. Attorney Fein. “The Department of Justice is committed to prosecuting those who corrupt our system of government, our campaign finance laws, and the electoral process.” “Today’s guilty pleas serve as a reminder that there are consequences for those who undermine the integrity of the legislative process by engaging in a concealed pay-to-play system,” stated FBI Special Agent in Charge Mertz. “The public interest was not being served. The only interests being served were those of the defendants who put their own interests above all. This investigation demonstrates the FBI’s commitment to the investigation of corruption at all levels of government.” According to court documents and statements made in court, in August 2011, the state of Connecticut applied for a court order enjoining Roll Your Own (RYO) smoke shops from continuing to operate without complying with state law governing tobacco manufacturers. RYO smoke shops are retail businesses that sell loose smoking tobacco and cigarette-rolling materials and offer customers the option of paying a “rental” fee to insert the loose tobacco and the rolling materials into a RYO machine, which is capable of rapidly rolling large quantities of cigarettes. Customers did not pay a tax on the RYO cigarettes when rolled by the RYO machines, in contrast to cigarettes purchased over-the-counter. Fearing that the Connecticut General Assembly would enact legislation harmful to RYO smoke shop owners’ business interests during the 2012 legislative session, Hogan, Paul Rogers, Harry Raymond “Ray” Soucy, David Moffa, and others engaged in a scheme to direct conduit campaign contributions into the campaign of a candidate for the U.S. House of Representatives. The candidate was also a member of the Connecticut General Assembly. As part of the scheme, the co-conspirators recruited multiple individuals to serve as conduit contributors to the campaign. These individuals permitted checks to be written in their own names to the campaign, and Rogers, Hogan, and other conspirators reimbursed them with cash, thereby concealing the fact that RYO smoke shop owners were contributing to the campaign. At the time, Nassi was the campaign manager for the campaign of the candidate for the U.S. House of Representatives, and Hogan was an employee of Smoke House Tobacco, an RYO smoke shop with two locations in Waterbury that was co-owned by Rogers. Soucy had a pre-existing relationship with Nassi and the member of the General Assembly who was running for Congress. In November and December 2011, Hogan, Rogers, Soucy, Moffa, and others made four $2,500 conduit contributions to the campaign. Hogan was aware of the purpose of the contributions and that the contributions were being made in the names of others. On approximately January 31, 2012, the campaign committee submitted to the Federal Election Commission (FEC) a report of the campaign committee’s receipts and disbursements for the period October 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011. The report falsely stated the source and amount of the four $2,500 contributions that were received and deposited by the campaign committee during that time period. On April 3, 2012, Soucy contacted Nassi and told him that RYO owners wanted to provide additional contributions to the campaign. That same day, the Connecticut General Assembly’s Joint Committee on Finance, Revenue, and Bonding voted in favor of Senate Bill 357, legislation that would have deemed RYO smoke shop owners to be tobacco manufacturers under Connecticut law, a designation that would have subjected RYO smoke shop owners to a substantial licensing fee and tax increase. Later that day, Soucy contacted Nassi again to state his displeasure with the vote. Approximately one week later, Soucy, Rogers, and an FBI special agent working in an undercover capacity delivered four $2,500 checks in the names of conduit contributors to Nassi. On April 23, 2012, Nassi advised Soucy that one of the checks had bounced, and Soucy indicated that the contributor had been given cash to deposit. Nassi stated that the campaign needed the check by midnight the following day, and Soucy delivered a replacement check by that deadline. On May 2, 2012, the campaign submitted a fundraising report to the FEC stating that the four contributions given in April were from the conduit contributors when, in fact, they were not. Over the next two weeks, Nassi continued to advise Soucy on the status of the RYO legislation, and Soucy told Nassi that he would be delivering $10,000 if the legislation died. On May 9, 2012, the legislative session ended and the legislation had not been called for a vote by either chamber of the General Assembly. On May 14, 2012, Soucy, Rogers, and Hogan met at Smoke House Tobacco where Soucy provided Rogers with $10,000 in cash to be used to reimburse additional conduit contributors. Prior to the meeting, Hogan had approached Waterbury business owner Daniel Monteiro and an employee of Monteiro’s and asked them to serve as conduit contributors. Monteiro subsequently wrote a $2,500 check to the campaign, and his employee obtained a bank check in the amount of $2,500. Both were assured that they would be reimbursed. These two checks, and another $2,500 bank check drawn on Hogan’s own account but not in his name, were given to Soucy at the meeting. Also, at Nassi’s request, Rogers gave Soucy a fourth $2,500 check from a conduit contributor that was payable to a political party. Soucy then delivered the four checks to Nassi at a political event. On May 16, 2012, after Soucy informed the campaign that one of the contributions had been made in the name of an RYO shop owner and should not be deposited, Soucy met Nassi and provided him with a replacement $2,500 check in the name of someone who was not affiliated with any RYO shops. Hogan and Nassi are scheduled to be sentenced on July 9 and July 16, 2013, respectively. Both face a maximum term of imprisonment of five years and a fine of up to $250,000. Rogers, Soucy, Moffa, and Monteiro have also pleaded guilty to charges related to this scheme and await sentencing. As to the two other individuals who have been charged as a result of this investigation, U.S. Attorney Fein stressed that an indictment is not evidence of guilt. Charges are only allegations, and each defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. This matter is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Christopher M. Mattei and Eric J. Glover.
corruption ROME, GA—Joshua L. Greeson pleaded guilty today to obstructing a pending public corruption and civil rights investigation by tampering with a witness while employed as a deputy with the Murray County Sheriff’s Department. “The criminal justice system is based on the premise that police officers must be honest and truthful above all,” said United States Attorney Sally Quillian Yates. “Mr. Greeson wasn’t and such conduct cannot stand. This investigation is continuing and we will follow the evidence wherever it leads.” “Such conduct as described in this case cannot be tolerated, and the FBI will continue to identify, investigate, and bring forward for prosecution those officers who betray the public’s trust,” said Mark F. Giuliano, Special Agent in Charge, FBI Atlanta Field Office “Those who are entrusted with upholding and enforcing the law must have honesty and integrity,” said GBI Director Vernon M. Keenan. “The GBI will continue to work with our federal law enforcement counterparts to insure those in a position of trust are held accountable.” According to United States Attorney Yates, the charges, and other information presented in court, in August 2012, Greeson, was employed with the Murray County Sheriff’s Office as a deputy sheriff. On August 14, 2012, he conducted a traffic stop of a white Dodge vehicle. During the traffic stop, Greeson found methamphetamine in a metal can hidden under the tire well of the car. After locating the drugs, Greeson arrested the driver and the owner of the vehicle—who at the time was the front seat passenger. On August 15, 2012, Greeson met with a state court judge to obtain a search warrant for the urine of the owner of the white Dodge vehicle. During the meeting, Greeson stated to the judge, in sum and substance, that he had not received any prior information about the white Dodge vehicle prior to stopping it. Shortly thereafter, the Georgia Bureau of Investigation (GBI) received information that the drugs had been planted on the vehicle by another individual in an attempt to falsely inculpate the owner of the white Dodge. As a result of that information, the local district attorney’s office dismissed the charges against the owner of the white Dodge. GBI agents interviewed Greeson on August 23, 2012 in connection with an investigation of public corruption and civil rights violations. During the interview, Greeson again falsely stated to the GBI agents that he had not received any information about the white Dodge car before he pulled it over. Greeson met with the GBI for a second interview on August 27, 2012. During this meeting, Greeson admitted to the GBI that he had lied—admitted that prior to stopping the white Dodge he had, in fact, been provided with information that the vehicle was supposed to be carrying drugs. On August 29, 2012, Greeson was terminated from the Murray County Sheriff’s Office. Greeson, 26, of Murray County, Georgia, could receive a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000. However, in determining the actual sentence, the Court will consider the United States Sentencing Guidelines, which are not binding but provide appropriate sentencing ranges for most offenders. Sentencing is scheduled for June 28, 2013, at 1:30 p.m. before United States District Judge Harold L. Murphy. This case is being investigated by special agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Georgia Bureau of Investigation. Assistant United States Attorneys Jeffrey W. Davis and Michael Herskowitz are prosecuting the case.
corruption United States Attorney Laura E. Duffy announced that Natividad Lara Cervantes, aka Nate Cervantes, a U.S. Department of Defense employee—and the supervisor for construction and service contracts at Camp Pendleton—was arraigned today on bribery charges before Magistrate Judge Barbara L. Major in relation to assisting a contractor obtain a $4 million construction contract. According to court records, Cervantes used his position at Camp Pendleton to extort bribes from businesses seeking to do business on the base, and referred to himself as the “Godfather at Camp Pendleton.” At least as early as September 2008, Cervantes allegedly used his position supervising construction and service contracts to extort bribes from businesses seeking to do business at Camp Pendleton. In return for these contracts, Cervantes received cash payments and remodeling work on a condominium. As reflected in the complaint supporting his arrest, on Tuesday, March 26, 2013, a cooperating witness met with Cervantes and agreed to pay him a $40,000 bribe in exchange for assistance in obtaining a new $4 million contract at Camp Pendleton. The bribe was to be structured over a number of payments. The first payment was scheduled for Thursday, March 28, 2013, with the balance of the bribe to be paid after the contract was awarded. On Thursday, March 28, 2013, the cooperating witness met with Cervantes at a local business on Miramar Road in San Diego, California, to make the first payment that was discussed earlier in the week. During this meeting, Cervantes discussed, among other things, the payment schedule and the source of funds for the bribe payments. At the end of the meeting, the witness handed Cervantes an envelope containing $10,000 cash. After Cervantes had received the cash, FBI agents approached and ordered Cervantes and the witness to put their hands in the air. United States Attorney Duffy commented that today’s prosecution was one more example of her “zero tolerance” policy when it came to government corruption. “Given the large military presence in San Diego, it is imperative that this office ensure that the government contracting process is free from bribery and undue influence. There must be a level playing field free from corruption for all government contractors.” Cervantes is scheduled to next appear in court on May 10, 2013 before Judge Anthony J. Battaglia. The charges in this case are not themselves evidence that the defendant committed the crimes charged. The defendant is presumed innocent until the government meets its burden in court of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. This investigation was conducted under the FBI’s public corruption investigative program. The public is encouraged to report possible public corruption criminal activity to the FBI by calling the FBI’s public corruption/border corruption hotline at (877) NO-BRIBE or (877) 662-7423. Defendant - Case Number: 13cr1345AJB Natividad Lara Cervantes Age: 64 San Diego, CA Summary of Charges Title 18, United States Code, Section 201(b)(2)—Bribery of public official Maximum penalties: 15 years’ imprisonment, $250,000 fine Investigating Agencies Federal Bureau of Investigation Naval Criminal Investigative Service Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation Department of Defense Criminal Investigative Service General Services Administration, Office of Inspector General Small Business Administration, Office of Inspector General
corruption LITTLE ROCK—Christopher R. Thyer, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Arkansas announced today that former Helena-West Helena Police Sergeant Marlene Kalb was sentenced to 30 months’ imprisonment with three years of supervised release to follow. No fine was imposed. Kalb was convicted on December 14, 2012, following a jury trial, of two counts of attempted extortion under color of official right and two counts of attempt to possess with intent to distribute cocaine. The sentence was imposed by United States District Judge James M. Moody. Kalb has been in custody since the verdict on December 14, 2012. Kalb’s convictions stem from an operation targeting corrupt police officers in the Arkansas Delta, including Helena-West Helena. The jury found that Marlene Kalb, while in uniform and on duty, provided a protective police escort for a purported drug trafficker, who was actually a confidential informant working with the FBI, and his cocaine by trailing him through Helena-West Helena in her police car on September 9, 2011 and September 26, 2011. The FBI-led sting operation was part of the investigation known as Operation Delta Blues, which focused primarily on public corruption and drug trafficking activities in the Helena-West Helena and Marianna, Arkansas, areas. Approximately 800 federal, state, and local law enforcement personnel from the FBI, Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigations (IRS-CID), Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF), Arkansas State Police (ASP), and the Little Rock Police Department (LRPD) participated in the October 11, 2011, arrests. The four other police officers indicted on October 11, 2011 previously pleaded guilty. Former Helena-West Helena Police Officer Herman Eaton pleaded guilty to one count of money laundering and one count of attempted extortion under color of official right. On May 16, 2012, U.S. District Judge Leon Holmes sentenced Eaton to 16 months’ imprisonment and two years’ supervised release. Former Marvell Police Officer Robert Wahls pleaded guilty to attempted interference with commerce by means of extortion (Hobbs Act) and money laundering. On May 30, 2012, Judge Billy Roy Wilson sentenced Wahls to 24 months’ imprisonment and two years’ supervised release. Former Phillips County Deputy Sheriff and Helena-West Helena Police Officer Dean Jackson pleaded guilty to one count of drug conspiracy relating to his role in the Sedrick Trice/Leon Edwards drug trafficking operation. On June 8, 2012, Judge Moody sentenced Jackson to 80 months’ imprisonment and four years’ supervised release. Former Helena-West Helena Police Officer Robert Rogers, aka Bam Bam, pleaded guilty to one count attempted interference with commerce by means of extortion (Hobbs Act). On August 1, 2012, Judge James M. Moody sentenced Rogers to 14 months’ imprisonment and two years’ supervised release. All four police officers remained in custody from the time of their arrest October 11. A sixth former officer, Roxanne Davis, was charged in the Delta Blues case on September 17, 2012. Davis is set for trial on May 20, 2013, before United States District Judge J. Leon Holmes. She was a state probation officer and has also been charged with alleged Hobbs Act violations. An indictment contains only allegations. A defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty. The investigation was conducted by the United States Attorney’s Office, FBI, DEA, ATF, IRS-CID, ASP, and LRPD. It was prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys Julie Peters, Michael Gordon, and Benecia Moore.
corruption A five-count indictment was filed charging David Donadeo, age 39, formerly of Broadview Heights, Ohio, and Dennis Boyles, age 39, of Garfield Heights, Ohio, with conspiracy to commit mail fraud and conspiracy to commit money laundering, said Steven M. Dettelbach, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio. Boyles was also charged with two counts of tax evasion and one count of making or subscribing a false tax return. Joseph Palazzo (who was previously charged, see Case No. 1:13cr167, United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio) during the period in question, was employed by the Cuyahoga Heights School District (the District) as its information technology (IT) director. Palazzo was responsible for managing the District’s IT department, which included purchasing hardware and software and making other IT expenditures to benefit the District and its students, according to the indictment. Palazzo, Donadeo, Boyles, and others devised a scheme to divert millions of dollars of District funds to their own personal use. As a result of the conduct of Palazzo, Donadeo, Boyles, and others, the District was defrauded and sustained a total loss of at least $3,333,448, according to the indictment. This scheme involved Palazzo submitting to the District for payment false invoices that purported to be for IT-related goods and services purchased from legitimate companies by the District’s IT department to benefit the District. Palazzo represented that the invoices he submitted were legitimate, and he approved the false invoices himself or forged the signature of another in the approval section, according to the indictment. However, in truth and in fact, these invoices were for services never performed, fictitious software and hardware, and software and hardware never received or already purchased by the District from another source. The companies named on the invoices did not supply such goods to or perform such services for the District and were nothing more than “shells,” according to the indictment. Relying on these invoices, the District issued checks to these shell vendor corporations, which were established and owned by Donadeo, Boyles, and another person working with Palazzo to defraud the District. Donadeo, Boyles, and the other shell vendor corporation owner kept approximately half of the stolen money themselves and funneled the remainder of the money back to Palazzo for his personal use, according to the indictment. In addition to participating in the foregoing scheme to defraud the District, Boyles failed to report his share of the money that he received from the scheme on his tax returns for the tax years 2008, 2009, and 2010. As a result, he failed to pay a total of $30,064 in taxes that was due and owing for those years, according to the indictment. This case was investigated by special agents of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, both located in Cleveland, with the assistance of the State of Ohio Auditor’s Office, the Cuyahoga County Sheriff’s Office, and the United States Postal Inspection Service. If convicted, the defendants’ sentences will be determined by the court after review of factors unique to this case, including the defendants’ prior criminal record, if any, the defendants’ roles in the offense, and the characteristics of the violation. In all cases, the sentence will not exceed the statutory maximum and in most cases it will be less than the maximum. The case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Rebecca Lutzko, Special Assistant United States Attorney Perry Mastrocola, and Assistant United States Attorney James L. Morford. An indictment is only a charge and is not evidence of guilt. A defendant is entitled to a fair trial in which it will be the government’s burden to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
corruption In Del Rio this morning, former Maverick County Solid Waste Authority general manager and chief executive officer of the Maverick County landfill Hector Chavez, Jr. surrendered to the Texas Rangers in connection with an alleged embezzlement scheme, announced United States Attorney Robert Pitman and FBI Special Agent in Charge Armando Fernandez. A federal grand jury indictment, returned yesterday and unsealed today, charges the 42-year-old Chavez with one count each of possessing forged securities and theft concerning programs receiving federal funds. According to the indictment, from March 9, 2012 to December 28, 2012, Chavez possessed forged Maverick County checks, which he drafted himself, totaling $62,179.18 made out to Chavez and others. The indictment further alleges that all the checks were subsequently cashed and that Chavez collected all of the proceeds. Upon conviction, Chavez faces up to 10 years in federal prison per charge. This ongoing investigation is being conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Texas Department of Public Safety Texas Rangers Division. Individuals who have first-hand information about corruption, fraud, or bribery related to Maverick County are urged to contact the FBI at (210) 225-6741. Assistant United States Attorney Michael Galdo is prosecuting this case on behalf of the government. An indictment is merely a charge and should not be considered as evidence of guilt. The defendant is presumed innocent until proven guilty in a court of law.
corruption WASHINGTON—Nova Datacom LLC, a Northern Virginia company, and its former president, Min Jung Cho, pled guilty today to federal charges stemming from their roles in a bribery and kickback scheme involving corrupt public officials from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Department of the Army, as well as various government contractors. Nova Datacom admitted to paying more than $15 million in bribes to three public officials in return for contracts awarded through the Army Corps of Engineers and the Department of the Army. In addition, Nova Datacom admitted paying more than $790,000 in kickbacks to executives of two companies that channeled government sub-contracts to the firm. The guilty pleas were announced by U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen, Jr.; Valerie Parlave, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office; Thomas J. Kelly, Special Agent in Charge of the Washington Field Office of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI); Peggy E. Gustafson, Inspector General for the Small Business Administration (SBA); Robert E. Craig, Special Agent in Charge of the Mid-Atlantic Field Office of the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS), and Frank Robey, Director of the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command’s Major Procurement Fraud Unit (MPFU). The developments are the latest in an ongoing investigation of the largest domestic bribery and bid-rigging scheme in the history of federal contracting cases. Overall, participants in the scheme stole over $30 million in government money through inflated and fictitious invoices. Nova Datacom LLC and Min Jung Cho, 44, of Springfield, Virginia, each pled guilty in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia to conspiracy to defraud the United States. In addition, Nova Datacom pled guilty to three counts of bribery. The Honorable Emmet G. Sullivan scheduled a status hearing for June 27, 2013. No sentencing date was set. Under federal sentencing guidelines, Nova Datacom faces a fine of $39.6 million to $79.2 million. Cho faces a statutory maximum of five years in prison and financial penalties. Two executives from other businesses pled guilty to charges in recent weeks. All told, 15 individuals and Nova Datacom have pled guilty so far in the investigation. They include three defendants who worked closely with Nova Datacom throughout the course of the scheme: Kerry F. Khan and Michael A. Alexander, former program managers for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and Harold F. Babb, the former director of contracts at Eyak Technology LLC (EyakTek), an Alaska Native-owned small business. Three other defendants who worked for Nova Datacom are among those who earlier pled guilty to charges. They include Alex N. Cho, also known as Young N. Cho, the brother of Min Jung Cho and the company’s former chief technology officer; Nick Park, a former employee who later opened his own business, Unisource Enterprise Inc. (UEI); and Theodoros Hallas, the company’s former executive vice president of Operations. As part of the plea agreements, Nova Datacom and Min Jung Cho have agreed to the entry of a forfeiture money judgment against them in the amount of $6.8 million. * * * “Today’s guilty pleas hold a corporation and its former president criminally accountable for their roles in funneling millions of dollars into a sprawling bribery scheme involving corrupt public officials and compromised government contractors,” said U.S. Attorney Machen. “They also reveal that this brazen fraud extended to the Department of the Army, where a corrupt public official exchanged contracts for cash, gambling in Las Vegas, and a $70,000 Lexus. Fifteen individuals have now pled guilty in this ongoing investigation, and today’s guilty plea by Nova Datacom demonstrates our commitment to holding accountable the corporations that benefit from crimes committed by their officers and employees.” “Today’s pleas are yet two more admissions of guilt in the largest fraud scheme in the history of federal contracting cases,” said Assistant Director in Charge Parlave. “Together with our law enforcement partners, the FBI will continue to combat bribery and fraud, and we will ensure those who engage in such illegal activity are brought to appropriate justice.” “The use of bribes and kickbacks to secure government contracts will not be tolerated in SBA’s 8(a) Business Development Program,” said SBA Inspector General Gustafson. “The SBA OIG appreciates the leadership of the U.S. Attorney’s Office and the support of our interagency partners in bringing forth these plea agreements.” “At a time when government and taxpayer resources are being stretched to their limits and our service members continue to make sacrifices to protect our national security, it is detestable that Nova Datacom would blatantly conspire to defraud the government and, eventually, the American warfighter,” said Special Agent in Charge Craig of DCIS. “The illegal manipulation of contracts to facilitate bribes and kickbacks that circumvent the military contracting process costs the taxpayer and warfighter alike. This investigation sends a clear message to those who may follow in the defendants’ footsteps—the Defense Criminal Investigative Service and our law enforcement partners will take aggressive action to identify and investigate those that endeavor to take advantage of the Department of Defense and the men and women of the Uniformed Services.” * * * Nova Datacom provided information assurance and security services to commercial companies and federal departments and agencies. The bribery charges involve Nova Datacom’s dealings with an unnamed former official with the Department of the Army and with Khan and Alexander of the Army Corps of Engineers. Evidence shows that the schemes began in 2007, as Nova Datacom moved heavily into government contracting. According to the government’s evidence, Alex Cho founded Nova Datacom in 2004 and was its sole owner until 2007. That year, he transferred complete ownership of the company to his sister to enable the firm to apply to the Small Business Administration for status as a woman- owned, minority small business. This would give the company an advantage in securing government contracts. At the time of the transfer, Alex Cho did not intend that his sister would control Nova Datacom or control its day-to-day operations. Later in 2007, based on false representations, the SBA certified Nova Datacom. From 2007 through 2010, Nova Datacom sought government business by submitting false past performance references and evaluations that fraudulently burnished its qualifications. The company also engaged in bribery to win government contracts. Scheme Involving the Army Corps of Engineers According to the government’s evidence, one scheme involved bribery payments and promises to Khan and Alexander. Starting in 2007, Alex Cho, Min Cho, Park, and other representatives of Nova Datacom paid Khan and Alexander in exchange for their steering contracts and subcontracts from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to the company. Some subcontracts were awarded through Babb’s firm, EyakTek, and Babb also received kickbacks. At Khan’s direction, Nova Datacom submitted fraudulently inflated quotes to the Army Corps of Engineers and EyakTek for the work performed. The fraudulently inflated amounts were referred to by Khan as “overhead,” and they generated the illicit proceeds of the scheme. From in or about the spring of 2007 through October 4, 2011, when Khan, Alexander, and Babb were arrested, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers awarded contracts and sub-contracts to Nova Datacom that included in excess of $20 million in “overhead.” Nova Datacom used portions of this “overhead” to make payments benefiting Khan, Alexander, Babb, and others. For example, Nova Datacom and its representatives gave, offered, and promised things of value directly and indirectly to Khan in excess of $14 million. The company and its representatives offered, promised, and provided things of value directly and indirectly to Alexander of approximately $1 million. Finally, Nova Datacom and its representatives offered, promised, and provided kickbacks directly and indirectly for the benefit of Babb in excess of $400,000. Law enforcement stepped in as plans were in development to steer a long-term contract worth up to $780 million to Nova Datacom as the primary contractor. * * * Schemes Involving the Department of the Army According to the government’s evidence, Alex Cho and Park paid a person identified as “Public Official C” a total of $50,000 in cash in 2007 in return for the award of subcontracts to Nova Datacom. In addition, they provided the official with first-class airline upgrades, entertainment, casino chips, and lodging in Las Vegas. The official recommended the company receive a subcontract valued at nearly $330,000. Also, in 2010, Alex Cho agreed to pay kickbacks to another businessman in return for subcontracts awarded to Nova Datacom through the Army. Oh Sung Kwon, also known as Thomas Kwon, was the co-founder and chief financial officer of Avenciatech Inc. He helped Nova Datcom win a subcontract worth more than $1.4 million. Nova Datacom paid approximately $390,000 in profits derived from this contract for the benefit of Kwon. * * * Other Guilty Pleas John Han Lee, 42, a co-founder of Unisource Enterprise Inc. (UEI), pled guilty on March 29, 2013, to one count of bribery and one count of conspiracy to commit bank fraud. Lee, 42, of Ashburn, Virginia, admitted taking part in schemes between 2008 and 2011 with Public Official C at UEI and two other firms that he later joined, “Company E,” and Avenciatech Inc. With assistance from Public Official C, who had a secret ownership in UEI and Avenciatech, the companies got sub-contracts; in turn, they provided Public Official C with benefits including golf outings, hotel stays, a trip to the Bahamas, cash payments, a Lexus automobile worth about $69,000, meals, and entertainment. In addition, Lee admitted joining in a mortgage fraud scheme in northern Virginia between 2004 and 2008 that cost lenders more than $1.2 million. King Everett Johnson, a former employee of UEI and the founder of Integrated Business and Technology Solutions, LLC (IBATS), pled guilty on March 29, 2013, to one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud. Johnson, 42, of Jersey City, New Jersey, admitted participating in the conspiracy in 2009 with others, including Public Official C, who at the time was an assistant project manager for the U.S. Army based in Seoul, South Korea. In collusion with Public Official C, Johnson submitted fraudulent invoices from IBATS, totaling $124,163, to the Department of the Army through Company E. He received the proceeds, transferred $40,000 for the benefit of Kwon, and kept the rest for himself. The others who earlier pled guilty to charges include Kerry Khan’s son, Lee A. Khan; Kerry Khan’s brother, Nazim Khan; Larry G. Corbett, owner of Core Technology LLC and Enterprise Technical Solutions Inc.; Robert L. McKinney, the president of Alpha Technology Group Inc., a provider of program management services; James Edward Miller, formerly of Virginia Beach, Virginia, the owner of Big Surf Construction Management LLC; and Kwon, the co-founder and chief executive officer of Avenciatech Inc. * * * In announcing the guilty pleas, U.S. Attorney Machen, Assistant Director in Charge Parlave, Special Agent in Charge Kelly, Inspector General Gustafson, Special Agent in Charge Craig, and Director Robey thanked those who investigated the case from the FBI’s Washington Field Office; the Office of the Inspector General for the Small Business Administration; the Department of Defense’s Defense Criminal Investigative Service; the Defense Contract Audit Agency; the Washington Field Office of the Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation; and the Army Criminal Investigation Command. They also expressed thanks to the U.S. Marshals Service for its assistance on the forfeiture matter. They also praised the efforts of those who worked on the case from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, including Assistant U.S. Attorneys Michael K. Atkinson, Bryan Seeley, and James Smith of the Fraud and Public Corruption Section and Assistant U.S. Attorney Anthony Saler of the Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section. Finally, they expressed thanks for assistance provided by Stephanie Brooker, former chief of the office’s Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section; Forensic Accountant Maria Boodoo; Paralegal Specialists Tasha Harris, Lenisse Edloe, Shanna Hays, Taryn McLaughlin, Christopher Samson, and Nicole Wattelet; and Legal Assistants Krishawn Graham and Jessica McCormick.
corruption BOSTON—A former Massachusetts state representative was sentenced today in federal court for civil rights violations after his role in submitting fraudulent absentee ballot applications and casting invalid ballots in multiple elections in 2009 and 2010. Stephen Smith, 57, of Everett, was sentenced by Magistrate Judge Leo T. Sorokin to four months in prison, to be followed by one year of supervised release and a $20,000 fine. Smith was ordered to report to prison on May 21, 2013. On December 20, 2012, Smith pleaded guilty to two misdemeanor counts of deprivation of rights under color of law. Pursuant to the plea agreement, Smith was called to resign his position in the Massachusetts House of Representatives effective January 1, 2013, and is not allowed to seek elected office for five years. Smith, as the representative of the 28th Middlesex District, cast invalid absentee ballots in support of his races for public office for voters who were ineligible or otherwise unaware of ballots being cast in their names. Smith submitted fraudulent Massachusetts Official Absentee Applications, which resulted in the issuance of absentee ballots. He obtained many of the absentee ballots and cause them to be delivered to the ineligible voters, who would then cast votes despite lacking any eligibility to do so, or Smith would cast the ballots himself. United States Attorney Carmen M. Ortiz and Richard DesLauriers, Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation-Boston Field Division made the announcement today. The case was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Eugenia M. Carris of Ortiz’s Public Corruption and Special Prosecutions Unit.
